Potential places to move Hurd Twiki to in order of preference:

* other
* savannah.gnu.org
* gnu.org

--

I favor removing gnu.org from the above list. There are copyright issues that are technically impossible to address in the way that RMS wants copyright assigned to all content hosted on gnu.org. While we probably could bend over backwards to accomodate it, fundamentally I think that this and other potential problems are not worth the effort of making this Hurd Twiki an official part of the GNU project.

Technically I think that savannah.gnu.org might be possible but I will defer to others for a decision from this perspective. Assuming it's possible, I think we may have similar problems as above.

I favor looking for another solution, an "other".

-- [[Main/GrantBow]] - 22 Sep 2002

In any case we have a step we can take with moving to a new domain name gnufriends.org thanks to main.DeepakGoel. Specifically I'm thinking of using <http://hurd.gnufriends.org/> as the home for the Hurd twiki. This is a great offer and something I think we can leverage if we use it appropriately right now. I would hope that we can set up this domain name usage in such a way as to prevent future users from needing to make ANY changes in how they access and use the Hurd Twiki. This might take some apache and DNS/bind "magic," but I know it's possible.

-- [[Main/GrantBow]] - 22 Sep 2002

[ rant mode ]

I pet peeve I have has to do with web pages &amp; domain names. I am sensitized to this due to a) the way hurd.gnu.org works, b) the way the TWiki software works and c) the way I have to do my own grantbow.com web pages right now. I'm being a bit anal about what the users gets when they type in something.

Right now if you type hurd.gnu.org in you get redirected to <http://www.gnu.org/software/hurd/>. This is a bit unusual but if necessary an acceptable configuration. If we type hurd.gnufriends.org in a browser, I don't want /twiki/bin/view/Hurd/WebHome to show up at all. On all Twikis, there's also another damn layer. The page always is a subset of the Twiki main page.

Is this a small thing? Yeah, it is. It may not be possible since this is the way that the twiki software works, but it sure would be nice to keep all that junk in the background. I suspect we can at least get rid of the twiki and [[WebHome]] portions so it's just /bin/view/Hurd/

Why are all these layers necessary and configured like this? I feel that this is a result of people are trying to impose ownership layers. What I would like to see is the data and not need to understand that the Hurd is a sub-wiki of a TWiki install. I see these artifacts as technology getting in the way of users getting at data they want to see. Infrastructure should ideally be invisible.

[ / rant mode ]

I'm also thinking that relying more on DNS and less on Apache redirection will make a move of locations in the future more transparent to users.

-- [[Main/GrantBow]] - 22 Sep 2002
