[[!meta copyright="Copyright © 2010 Free Software Foundation, Inc."]]

[[!meta license="""[[!toggle id="license" text="GFDL 1.2+"]][[!toggleable
id="license" text="Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this
document under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.2 or
any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no Invariant
Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.  A copy of the license
is included in the section entitled [[GNU Free Documentation
License|/fdl]]."]]"""]]

[[!meta title="POSIX compatibility"]]

Is it favorable of rather a hindrance to be compatible to POSIX and similar
standards?

A lot of things in POSIX et al. are designed for [[UNIX]]-like systems with
traditional monolithic [[kernel]]s.

Thus, a [[microkernel]]-based system, as ours is, has to employ a bunch of
detours, for example to implement the [[`fork` system call|glibc/fork]].

On the other hand, (mostly) complying to these standards, made a really big
body of software *just work* without any (or just trivial) [[hurd/porting]].
Especially so for command-line programs, and libraries.

But: a large part of today's user programs are not written according to POSIX
et al. low-level interfaces, but against GNOME, GTK+2, and other high-level
frameworks and libraries.  It may be a valid option to enrich these instead of
striving for total POSIX compliance -- and the high-level programs (that is,
their users) may not even notice this, but we would avoid a lot of overhead
that comes with wrapping the [[Hurd interfaces|hurd/interface]] to be POSIX
compliant.


\#hurd IRC channel on Freenode, 2010-12-21:

    <antrik> tschwinge: the writeup ignores the fact that POSIX compatibility
      is not only for applications, but also for users familiar with the UNIX
      environment
    <antrik> also, I still don't buy the fact that most software is not written
      for POSIX. even if assuming that GNOME programs don't use POSIX (which is
      only half true), there is a lot of other software in a system that is
      just as important, though less visible
    <antrik> (server software, startup system, device management, automation,
      ...)
    <antrik> tschwinge: BTW, I meant to (and partially did) write a blog
      article on this topic -- but I didn't get around to finish it...

[[!tag open_issue_documentation]]
