[[!meta copyright="Copyright © 2010, 2013 Free Software Foundation, Inc."]]

[[!meta license="""[[!toggle id="license" text="GFDL 1.2+"]][[!toggleable
id="license" text="Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this
document under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.2 or
any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no Invariant
Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.  A copy of the license
is included in the section entitled [[GNU Free Documentation
License|/fdl]]."]]"""]]

[[!tag open_issue_hurd]]

Collection about stuff that is relevant for *virtualization* and *networking*.

  * [[Virtual_Square_View-OS]]

  * [*Virtual Networks*](http://virtualsquare.org/vn.html)

  * [User Level Networking](http://uln.sourceforge.net/)

  * [Virtual Distributed Ethernet](http://vde.sourceforge.net/)

  * [Application Level
    Environment4Networking](http://sourceforge.net/projects/ale4net/)

    *Ale4NET used dyn library call diversion to define networking at process
    level.* -- what we're doing with our approach for overriding the default
    [[hurd/translator/pfinet]] by setting environment variables.

    Project is now part of [[Virtual_Square_View-OS]].


# OpenVPN

[[community/meetings/GHM2013]].


## IRC, freenode, #hurd, 2013-08-23

    <youpi> good news
    <youpi> with a couple small patches, openvpn does work as joe user


## IRC, freenode, #hurd, 2013-08-30

    <youpi> it's really cool that openvpn ended up working completely the day
      before :)


## IRC, freenode, #hurd, 2013-09-03

    <_d3f> Hey guys, how did you get openvpn working on the Hurd? just curious
      as I saw it in the GHM video
    <_d3f> no one here who has a clue how to get *vpn working on the Hurd?
    <braunr> _d3f: youpi did it
    <braunr> i don't know the details
    <_d3f> okay, I will question him when I see him around, thx. Do you know if
      it was a lot of work to get the tun device working? Because I would like
      to use tinc on the Hurd.
    <braunr> _d3f: a bit but not that much either
    <_d3f> braunr: well, okay. Do you know if the source of his 'port' is
      online, I haven't found it :/
    <braunr> it should be soon


## IRC, freenode, #hurd, 2013-09-04

    <_d3f> youpi: you are the guy who has brought openvpn to the hurd, right? I
      would like to know how you got the tun/tap thing working as I would like
      to use tinc on it. :)
    <youpi> _d3f: essentially no modification of openvpn iirc
    <youpi> just tell it to open the tun node created by pfinet
    <youpi> and read/write it
    <youpi> i.e. the existing generic code in place in openvpn
    <_d3f> I will have a look at it, somekind tinc builds with the linux
      specific device.c but I wasn't able to exchange keys. I will have a look
      at the device handling again and try to get the pfinet tun node used.


## IRC, freenode, #hurd, 2013-09-07

    <d3f> anyone here knows how /dev/net is handled on the hurd? Programs using
      it say it's not a directory. I tried creating one and setting a netdde
      translator for a tun device in it, but this may be wrong as it doesn't
      work
    <teythoon> d3f: what does /dev/net do?
    <teythoon> ah, its tun/tap stuff...
    <d3f> on my gnu/linux it includes a tun device
    <teythoon> right
    <d3f> I am still reading about the Hurd and try to understand /hurd/netdde
      and devnode but by now I am quite sure I will need those to set a tun
      networktranslator on /dev/net/tun?
    <teythoon> hm, I don't think netdde or devnode will be of any help
    <teythoon> afaiui devnode makes mach devices available in the hurdish way,
      i.e. available for lookup in the filesystem
    <teythoon> d3f: ping youpi if he shows up, he hacked up openvpn to work on
      the hurd
    <d3f> yeah I know, I talked to him as I am tring to get tinc working on the
      Hurd (tinc builds by now). I will give him a shot about creating the
      "tun" device
