[[!meta copyright="Copyright © 1996, 1997, 1998, 2002, 2003, 2004, 2007, 2008
Free Software Foundation, Inc."]]

[[!meta license="""[[!toggle id="license" text="GFDL 1.2+"]][[!toggleable
id="license" text="Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this
document under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.2 or
any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no Invariant
Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.  A copy of the license
is included in the section entitled
[[GNU Free Documentation License|/fdl]]."]]"""]]

[[!meta title="Origin of the Name"]]

[According to Thomas
Bushnell](http://web.cecs.pdx.edu/~trent/gnu/hurd/hurd-name), the primary
architect of the Hurd:

> It's time to explain the meaning of *Hurd*.
> 
> *Hurd* stands for *Hird of [[Unix]]-Replacing Daemons*.
> And, then, *Hird* stands for *Hurd of Interfaces Representing Depth*.
> 
> We have here, to my knowledge, the first software to be named by a
> pair of mutually recursive acronyms.

[Quoting](http://mail.gnu.org/archive/html/help-hurd/2002-10/msg00099.html)
him further:

> The name *Hurd* was invented by me, as an alternate spelling for the English
> word *herd*.  *Hird* is just another alternate spelling for the same word.
> By the [[normal_rules_of_English_orthography|gramatically_speaking]], they
> all have the same pronunciations.


---

<!-- TODO.  Source?  Or remove? -->

In other contexts:

One contributor from Norway described two other uses of Hird.

  * "the kings men", a name given to the men accompanying the Norwegian kings at about 
    year 1000 and on.
    
    This was later coined by V. Quisling when he formed a party with
    nationalistic traits to denote a set of helpers promoting his agenda of
    national and Nordic ideas.

  * a symbol of collaboration with the (German) enemy used in World War II.
