## <a name="Maintenance_of_the_Mach_web"> Maintenance of the Mach web </a>

**_Old discussions:_** [[WIKIHOMEURLMachTOPICrev13]]

Interesting, for consistency sake I'll think about making your changes you made on the right hand side to the other web WebHome pages. I guess it's not critical that they are identical, but I was trying to keep them identical if possible. I also wanted it to be "light" enough feature wise that it doesn't overpower the page. You've added back a few of the features, so we obviously differ in how important you and I think these features are. That's OK, I'll think about it some more and we'll see what happens.

Oh, I see you added back [[WebTopicList]] and [[WebPreferences]]. I purposely removed [[WebPreferences]] from the lists on the right because it has nothing to do with navigation. I also didn't think that people actually use topic names to navigate. If they do they could search for them. Keeping the number to four items instead of six and keeping the descriptions concise makes a big difference when I view the page.

(goes off to think more...)

and eat... ;-)

-- [[Main/GrantBow]] - 29 Dec 2002

**_Reasons for my change:_**

1. [[WebTopicList]] is a lot quicker than the [[WebIndex]] - brings down the load times and the load of the server
2. [[WebPreferences]] - users might be curious to see what can be modified. Changes should of course only be made in their home topics, like in %WIKIUSERNAME%. However, the [[WebPreferences]] can serve as an inspiration. Therefore we should perhaps make sure only the [[Main/TWikiAdminGroup]] members can alter the \*Preferences topics.
3. If you look closely I've also reordered the links. Shorter names first and long ones last, I tried to keep the descriptions brief and in proportional length as well.

I don't know about you, but keeping the number of items to four rather than six doesn't really matter to me. The text is quite small and if it's the space we're after the [[WebStatistics]] does take up more than the navigation links.

-- [[Main/JoachimNilsson]] - 29 Dec 2002
