The **%WIKITOOLNAME%.%WEB%** web is the sandbox you can use for testing.

Everybody is welcome to add or delete some stuff. It is recommended to walk through the %TWIKIWEB%.TWikiTutorial to get a jumpstart on the %WIKITOOLNAME% tool. A good rule of thumb is to add at the end of the page and sign &amp; date it with your %TWIKIWEB%.WikiName.

* [[TestTopic1]], [[TestTopic2]], [[TestTopic3]], [[TestTopic4]]
* [[TestTopic5]], [[TestTopic6]], [[TestTopic7]], [[TestTopic8]], [[NewbieTest1]], [[TestTim]]

* [[Main/CarlosM]]: Here is the proposed [[SubmitNewsTopic]] -- [[Main/JoachimNilsson]]

[[TestTopic9]] topic

-- [[Main/CamResu]] 17 Sept 2003

%ATTACHURL%/Hurd\_\_Linux\_in\_Bochs\_On\_XP.jpg

-- [[Main/CamResu]] 17 Sept 2003

* To All : Bootable CD? --

[[BootCD]] topic

-- [[Main/CamResu]] 17 Sept 2003

<form action="%SCRIPTURLPATH%/search%SCRIPTSUFFIX%/%WEB%/">
  <ul>
    <li><span style="background:"><font color="">Web Search</font></span><a href="http://LOCATION/WebSearch">?</a>: Full text search of the %WIKITOOLNAME%.%WEB% web. </li>
    <li><input name="search" size="32" type="text" /> <input type="submit" value="Search" />    (More options in <span style="background:"><font color="">Web Search</font></span><a href="http://LOCATION/WebSearch">?</a>) </li>
    <li><span style="background:"><font color="">Web Changes</font></span><a href="http://LOCATION/WebChanges">?</a>: Find out recent modifications to the %WIKITOOLNAME%.%WEB% web. </li>
    <li><span style="background:"><font color="">Web Index</font></span><a href="http://LOCATION/WebIndex">?</a>: Display all %WIKITOOLNAME%.%WEB% topics in alphabetical order. See also the faster <span style="background:"><font color="">Web Topic List</font></span><a href="http://LOCATION/WebTopicList">?</a></li>
    <li> %NOTIFYTOPIC%: Subscribe to be automatically notified when something changes in the %WIKITOOLNAME%.%WEB% web. </li>
    <li> %STATISTICSTOPIC%: View access statistics of the %WIKITOOLNAME%.%WEB% web. </li>
    <li> %WEBPREFSTOPIC%: Preferences of the %WIKITOOLNAME%.%WEB% web. </li>
    <li> The <span style="background:"><font color="">Web Menu</font></span><a href="http://LOCATION/WebMenu">?</a> topic alters any skin specific menus. </li>
  </ul>
</form>

**Notes:**

* You are currently in the %WIKITOOLNAME%.%WEB% web. The color code for this web is a light gray background, so you know where you are.
* If you are not familiar with the %WIKITOOLNAME% collaboration tool, please visit %TWIKIWEB%.WelcomeGuest in the %WIKITOOLNAME%.%TWIKIWEB% web first.

%INCLUDE\{"%TWIKIWEB%.TWikiWebsTable"\}%
