[[!meta copyright="Copyright © 2013, 2014 Free Software Foundation, Inc."]]

[[!meta license="""[[!toggle id="license" text="GFDL 1.2+"]][[!toggleable
id="license" text="Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this
document under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.2 or
any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no Invariant
Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.  A copy of the license
is included in the section entitled [[GNU Free Documentation
License|/fdl]]."]]"""]]

/!\ Incomplete, but hopefully helpful for future reference.


# Packages

  * apache2-mpm-prefork (used to be apache2-mpm-worker but changed because of some threading issues with CGI)

  * ikiwiki libcgi-session-perl libtext-csv-perl libcgi-formbuilder-perl
    libauthen-passphrase-perl libnet-openid-consumer-perl
    libterm-readline-gnu-perl libgravatar-url-perl
    librpc-xml-perl libtext-wikiformat-perl libhighlight-perl perlmagick
    graphviz texinfo

      * libemail-send-perl (for my *sendmail vs. ikiwiki* patch)

      * libsearch-xapian-perl xapian-omega (for ikiwiki's search plugin)

      * libyaml-perl libyaml-syck-perl (for ikiwiki's YAML field plugins)

      * libtext-markdown-perl (used instead of libtext-markdown-discount-perl)

    Make sure that liblwpx-paranoidagent-perl is not installed; OpenID logins
    with fail otherwise: *no_identity_server: Could not determine ID provider
    from URL*.  Issue discovered on 2014-02-28, but unclear since when it did
    actually occur.  Nothing in the apache logs.  Not fixed by the update to
    ikiwiki 3.20140227.

  * gitweb highlight

        sudo ln -s ~hurd-web/hurd-web.git /var/lib/git/

  * git-daemon-sysvinit

    Enable as per `/usr/share/doc/git-daemon-sysvinit/README.Debian`.  Also set
    `GIT_DAEMON_OPTIONS=--export-all`, and `GIT_DAEMON_DIRECTORY='/var/lib/git'`.


# `~hurd-web/`

    $ mkdir hurd-web.git && GIT_DIR=hurd-web.git git init


# `~tschwinge/`

/!\ TODO.

    $ mkdir tmp/backup && chmod 0733 tmp/backup


# `/var/www/robots.txt`

/!\ TODO.

This file used to contain:

    User-agent: *
    Disallow: /gitweb/
    Disallow: /cgi-bin/

... which I've now changed to:

    User-agent: *
    Disallow: /

The goal is that robots rather index the official pages,
<http://www.gnu.org/software/hurd/>, instead of the staging area on
<http://darnassus.sceen.net/~hurd-web/>.


# Restore Backup

/!\ TODO.

## `/etc/apache2/mods-enabled/`

`rewrite.load`, `userdir.conf`, `userdir.load`


# IRC, freenode, #hurd, 2013-02-09

    <tschwinge> We need an httpd (Apache used to work), and ikiwiki and some
      such stuff.
    <tschwinge> This has its own git repository.
    <tschwinge> This was on a separate virtual machine.
    <tschwinge> Then there was the Git repository on flubber used for people to
      push to.
    <tschwinge> Ho -- let me actually try to remember the setup.  Has been some
      years...
    <braunr> what machine currently hosts the wiki ?
    <tschwinge> Anyway, there is no requirement for the web server to be on a
      separate machine; your decision.
    <tschwinge> braunr: http://www.gnu.org/software/hurd/public_hurd_boxen.html
    <tschwinge> snubber
    <tschwinge> That was the web server.
    <braunr> isn't it gnu.org ?
    <tschwinge> And flubber had the repository for developers to push to.
    <tschwinge> No, gnu.org is updated manually (by me).
    <braunr> ah
    <tschwinge> It'S a snapshot of the wiki so to say.
    <braunr> ok so, is this wiki really meant to be modifiable from a browser ?
    <tschwinge>
      http://www.gnu.org/software/hurd/contributing/web_pages.html#index5h2
    <tschwinge> Yes.
    <braunr> i see
    <tschwinge> I should still be able to access the data from Barry's zenhost
      (including all the VMs it hosted), so I should be able to replicate that
      quite easily.
    <braunr> do you think it could be hosted on darnassus, or would you like a
      separate vm ?
    <tschwinge> The repository for people to push to and pull from (used to be
      on flubber) would be on darnassus now.
    <tschwinge> About the web server, hmm.
    <tschwinge> It's basically a security concern.
    <tschwinge> And it might get hammered by bots from time to time.
    <braunr> it won't need much resources i suppose
    <tschwinge> No.  The web server (snubber) was running with 242 MiB of RAM,
      and had uptimes of several weeks typically.
    <braunr> tschwinge: otherwise, could it use the web server running on the
      host ?
    <tschwinge> The host being darnassus?
    <braunr> no
    <braunr> shattrath, the linux system
    <tschwinge> Ah.
    <tschwinge> Sure.
    <tschwinge> There is no requirement this to be a Hurd system -- was just
      nice to show to people.
    <braunr> i think it is too
    <braunr> what's the problem with darnassus ?
    <braunr> yçou mentioned security
    <tschwinge> The web server being a public-facing component which might be
      broken into.
    <braunr> how ?
    <braunr> it's so much easier to just ask for an account .. :)
    <tschwinge> Web server bugs, CGI script bugs, etc.
    <tschwinge> Sure.
    <tschwinge> I just wanted to make you aware of it.  :-)
    <braunr> oh don't worry
    <braunr> ok so darnassus it is
    <pinotree> was it running apache? maybe, if other (lighter?) web servers
      are tested to work on hurd, they could be used
    <tschwinge> pinotree: Yes, and yes.
    <braunr> doesn't ikiwiki need php ?
    <tschwinge> Only requirement (I think) is abaility to run CGI scripts.
    <tschwinge> braunr: No.  It's written in perl.
    <braunr> ok
    <braunr> i still think i'll use apache
    <braunr> it's really not that heavy
    <braunr> lighter servers matter when the number of concurrent clients get
      very high
    <tschwinge> Then I'll figure out how exactly the setup was between flubber
      and snubber.
    <braunr> ok
    <braunr> it's good to finally get that going :)
    <tschwinge> braunr: Of course ;-) -- I had some parts of the process
      documented:
      http://www.gnu.org/software/hurd/public_hurd_boxen/installation/snubber.html
    <tschwinge> If both Git repositories are to be on the same machine
      (darnassus) we might not actually need inetutils-inetd and netcat.
    <tschwinge> Still trying to figure out what I had done there...  ;-)
    <tschwinge> OK, I again understand the setup.  Last been touched in the
      2008/2009 timeframe.  ;-)
    <braunr> :)
    <tschwinge> braunr: Please use the following ikiwiki packages: dpkg -i
      ~tschwinge/tmp/ikiwiki_3.20110608_all.deb
    <braunr> what makes this package special ?
    <tschwinge> Some patch that I added to get rendering of our news pages
      correct.
    <braunr> ok
    <tschwinge> I have not updated it ever since (and the patch was not yet in
      a suitable form for upstream).
    <tschwinge> Nothing major.
    <braunr> tschwinge: why is the ikiwiki package status hi ?
    <tschwinge> braunr: I set it to hold.
    <braunr> ah ok
    <braunr> so you finished your pat i suppose
    <braunr> i'll install apache
    <braunr> part*
    <tschwinge> I'll add a hurd-web user.
    <tschwinge> So...  I actually have to locate a backup of the files from
      flubber related to the wiki,
    * tschwinge goes searching his backup devices.
    <braunr> i added userdirs on darnassus' apache
    <tschwinge> braunr: I just noticed when I wanted to add it myself.  ;-)
    <tschwinge> braunr: Do you know about CGI scripts?
    <braunr> yes
    <tschwinge> braunr: snubber had these in /var/www/cgi-bin/; darnassus now
      in /usr/lib/cgi-bin/.
    <tschwinge> ikiwiki needs to install one CGI script.
    <braunr> ok
    <tschwinge> Does this go into /usr/lib/cgi-bin/ then?  Or into ~hurd-web/
      and a symlink somewhere?
    <braunr> ikiwiki should have installed it where it's appropriate
    <braunr> normally in /usr/lib/cgi-bin/
    <tschwinge> It's a CGI script that is generated per ikiwiki instance, so
      specific to hurd-web.
    <braunr> where does it install it by default ?
    <tschwinge> $PWD ;-)
    <braunr> ah
    <braunr> it seems a bit silly to me to generate cgi scripts :/
    <braunr> i don't care much actually, we won't have virtual servers
    <braunr> so anywhere is fine
    <tschwinge> What does the +SymLinksIfOwnerMatch Apache option mean?
    <braunr> apache will normally not follow symlink
    <braunr> unless the owner of the symlink is the same as the target's
    <braunr> (with this option)
    <tschwinge> That's enabled for CGI scripts.  So would it work to have a
      symlink /usr/lib/cgi-bin/hurd-web.cgi -> ~hurd-web/hurd-web.cgi?
    <braunr> the traditional way to access cgi scripts is to explicitely refer
      to them as http://server/cgi-bin/script
    <braunr> using *.cgi may allow too open access to cgis
    <braunr> (although normally, the userdir conf should disable them)
    <braunr> hm not sure it does
    <braunr> so put it in /usr/lib/cgi-bin/
    <tschwinge> So the hurd-web ikiwiki instance just needs to be configured
      accordingly with the URL where the CGI script will be found, and then it
      will render the pages accordingly.
    <tschwinge> OK.
    <braunr> and just named hurd-web


## IRC, freenode, #hurd, 2013-02-10

    <tschwinge> http://darnassus.sceen.net/~hurd-web/
    <tschwinge> Have at it!
    <tschwinge> braunr: ^
    <braunr> :)
    <braunr> great
    <tschwinge> And push to/pull from darnassus:~hurd-web/hurd-web.git for Git
      access.
    <tschwinge> Will update the web pages tomorrow, and all that.
    <tschwinge> braunr: And also install gitweb on darnassus, so one can view
      diffs of the wiki pages, etc.  OK?
    <braunr> tschwinge: there are still links towards bddebian
    <braunr> history for example
    <braunr> just fyi, we can look at this tomorrow
    <tschwinge> braunr: Yes, that'S what I need gitweb for.
    <tschwinge> braunr: gitweb installed, hurd-web URLs fixed
      (s%bddebian%darnassus), also some more ikiwiki-related Perl pacakges
      installed (openID login, for example).
