Why the heck was an ENTIRE web created to hold one page in another language without any URLs or content in it?? Out of respect to hear why, I've refrained from deleting it. I actually updated the menus on the left side and the colored box so that it's included there even though I didn't understand it at the time.

Perhaps the feeling was (like mine) there's no place to point to all the various locations where real people who use the Hurd are. I've noticed that as well recently as I get more familiar with the site design, navigation and content again. In response I've updated the [[Hurd/TheGnuHurd]] with that info as a question. It's ideal since it's listed in the navigation bar at left as About too... Perhaps this is where we can focus things in an FAQ format to help pare down the navigation and increase signal/noise quite a bit. We could even rename it to [nop]TheGnuHurdFaq

It makes no intuitive sense to me given that the site already has too many different webs that aren't being used to their fullest. We jumped from just one web (Hurd) to several webs since the Hurd one seemed to justify the traffic. I just recently moved all the last remaining content that I could find out of the Main web, completing the move we made to complete going to the one Hurd web many moons ago. I think all new content that we don't know where to put needs to be in ONLY the Hurd web unless there's a clear affinity for having it in a different web.

* Mig - clear
* Mach - clear
* Gnu - clear
* Distrib - Debian port or Debian project related only. The only reason I think we didn't name this Debian is because there are anticipated other distributions.
* Hurd - everything else

* TWiki - re: TWiki software only
* Main - administrative, holds user accounts

* Test - on a high volume site this might be better used, but it also has value in encouraging experimentation even if we have the name as Sandbox (inconsistent with rest of site navigation). That screenshot is awesome, we should try to find more of that kind of thing.

-- [[Main/GrantBow]] - 27 Feb 2004
