[[meta copyright="Copyright © 2007 Free Software Foundation, Inc."]]
[[meta license="Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this
document under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.2 or
any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no Invariant
Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.  A copy of the license
is included in the section entitled
[[GNU_Free_Documentation_License|/fdl]]."]]

# TODO

Please add your comments here about what you think needs to be done on the wiki.


## What to Add

    <azeem-uni> tschwinge: so, first plan: don't mention www.d.o/ports/hurd on the wiki
    <azeem-uni> but transfer that information to the wiki, and keep it uptodate there
    <azeem-uni> and proabably make links to that on w.d.o


    <azeem-uni> tschwinge: also a top-level "How can I help Hurd development" paragraph would be nice


we have "how to set-up Hurd consoles" and "how to set up Xorg in Hurd" but we do not have any
general after-installation problems page e.g. networking problem, upgrade problem. later 
with that information we can make a page named: Technical FAQs.  --[[arnuld]]


I'd like an RSS or Atom feed of the changes to the Wiki. Is there a way that there could be one? -- ThomasThurman

> I'm discussing this with upstream.  It is not as trivial as one might think,
> as it -- I suppose -- means rendering the RecentChanges page to static HTML,
> but I also don't see why it shouldn't be possible.  --[[tschwinge]]

> Upstream, Joey Hess, says that the RecentChanges page *is not static for
> speed reasons mostly*.  What we can do -- which is also what [[ikiwiki]] [is
> doing](http://ikiwiki.info/download/) -- is that *commits to this git
> repository are fed into [CIA](http://cia.vc/), and can be browsed, subscribed
> to etc on its [project page](http://cia.vc/stats/project/ikiwiki)*.  I'll try
> to take care about that.  --[[tschwinge]]


## How to Rearrange

[[Hurd]] and [[Distrib]] are a messy conglomeration of everything and should be
cleaned and re-ordered.  --[[tschwinge]]


The three of [[Xfree86]], [[DebianX]], [[DebianXorg]] should be merged into
one.


    <azeem> tschwinge: maybe we should discuss wiki page naming policies WRT Debian
    <azeem> I'd rather have something like /Debian, /DebianInstall, /DebianFAQ, /DebianInstallCrosshurd etc.
    <azeem> than the current distrib


What to do with [[GNU]]?  --[[tschwinge]]


Someone could work on getting us some nice style-sheets; see [[local.css]].
--[[tschwinge]]
