[[meta copyright="Copyright © 2007 Free Software Foundation, Inc."]]
[[meta license="Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this
document under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.2 or
any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no Invariant
Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.  A copy of the license
is included in the section entitled
[[GNU_Free_Documentation_License|/fdl]]."]]

# Porting Applications

Debian is currently the Hurd distribution of choice among Hurd
users and developers.  Approximately half of the Debian archive
has been compiled successfully on the Hurd, however, many
programs fail to build for various reasons.  A [list of build 
failures including error messages](http://unstable.buildd.net/buildd/hurd-i386_Failed.html)
can be found, as well as a [preliminary analysis](http://lists.debian.org/debian-hurd/2007/07/msg00000.html)
of them. If you want to port any of these, file patches in the 
[Alioth patch tracker](http://alioth.debian.org/tracker/?atid=410472&group_id=30628&func=browse)
 for review. It might be a good idea to record your intention 
to port something in the [Alioth task tracker](http://alioth.debian.org/pm/task.php?group_project_id=34&group_id=30628&func=browse) so other people do not do duplicated work. You can also just 
install the Hurd and find what doesn't work for you and port 
it and then file patches for that package in [above patch tracker](http://alioth.debian.org/tracker/?atid=410472&group_id=30628&func=browse).
Another important task is making sure that patches go upstream as 
well, especially for GNU projects.

If you want to further development, a list of interesting 
projects is available in the [Alioth task tracker](http://alioth.debian.org/pm/task.php?group_project_id=35&group_id=30628&func=browse).
Those projects are not necessarily Debian specific, but do
not touch the Hurd proper.

# Hurd Proper

If you are interested in developping the Hurd proper, there is
plenty of work to do.  Before you can significantly contribute,
take some time to learn about the system, e.g.,
[[microkernels_for_beginners|microkernel/for_beginners]].  Until you can do the basic exercises
listed there, you won't be able to significantly contribute to
the Hurd.

See the [[ToDo]].

# GNU Mach

[[GNU_Mach|microkernel/mach/gnumach]] is the underlying microkernel used by the
Hurd.  It has a number of deficencies;
[[microkernel/mach/gnumach/projects]].
