## <a name="HURD_Hird_of_Unix_Replacing_Daem"> </a> HURD - Hird of Unix Replacing Daemons

From [gnu.org](http://www.gnu.org/software/hurd/hurd.html#TOCintroduction): the GNU project's replacement for the Unix kernel. The Hurd is a collection of servers that run on the Mach microkernel to implement file systems, network protocols, file access control, and other features that are implemented by the Unix kernel or similar kernels (such as Linux).

The Hurd development effort is a somewhat separate project from the Debian GNU/Hurd port of a full GNU operating system. The Hurd is the last piece of the full GNU operating system goal.

## <a name="HIRD_Hurd_of_Interfaces_Represen"> </a> HIRD - Hurd of Interfaces Representing Depth

One contributor from Norway also described two other uses of Hird.

* "the kings men",a name given to

the men accompanying the norwegian kings at about year 1000 and on. This was later coined by V.Quisling when he formed a party with nationalistic traits to denote a set of helpers promoting his agenda of national &amp; nordic ideas.

* A symbol of collaboration with the (German) enemy used in World War II.

## <a name="Why_the_word_HURD_"> </a> Why the word HURD?

[Quoting ](http://mail.gnu.org/archive/html/help-hurd/2002-10/msg00099.html) Thomas Bushnell, BSG:

The name "Hurd" was invented by me, as an alternate spelling for the English word "herd". "Hird" is just another alternate spelling for the same word. By the normal rules of English orthography, they all have the same pronounciations.

Other pages that describe the names are on [gnu.org](http://www.gnu.org/software/hurd/hurd.html#TOCname).

Perhaps unrelated: the "herd menatality" of folks is what the Hurd project and the the GNU project in general is fighting against...

See also the FAQ, [Relation between GNU and the Hurd](http://www.gnu.org/software/hurd/faq.en.html#q1-2).

# Pronounciation

The Hurd has its share of linguistic debate. The subject of proper usage comes up quite often.

We call our kernel replacement \`\`the Hurd.'' Although Thomas Bushnell, BSG states that the word \`\`Hurd'' is an acronym; we do not treat it as such, but rather as a concrete noun. It is widely regarded as incorrect to use the term \`\`HURD'' or \`\`H.U.R.D.'' So, to refer to the collection of servers running on top of the microkernel, we would say, \`\`I have upgraded to the latest version of the Hurd.'' Since the Hurd is part of the GNU Project, we also refer to it as \`\`GNU Hurd'' which is treated as a proper noun.

The Hurd, in conjunction with Mach, forms the core of the GNU operating system. So, one can say \`\`I have installed GNU on my friend's new computer.'' The Debian Project clarifies this by using the name \`\`Debian GNU/Hurd'', because it also distributes the GNU/Linux variant of GNU.

To pronounce the word \`\`Hurd,'' you should say the English word \`\`herd.'' This is pronounced as \`\`hɚd'' using the International Phonetic Alphabet.
