[[!meta copyright="Copyright © 2007, 2008 Free Software Foundation, Inc."]]

[[!meta license="""[[!toggle id="license" text="GFDL 1.2+"]][[!toggleable
id="license" text="Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this
document under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.2 or
any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no Invariant
Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.  A copy of the license
is included in the section entitled
[[GNU Free Documentation License|/fdl]]."]]"""]]

## Howto write a Hurd library

Build the Hurd sources:
------------------------

Refer to this [[hurd/building/example]].

Create the library files:
----------------------

Create a directory, say, libhello in the Hurd sources directory. 

Create a lhello.h header file:

    /* lhello.h - Example library header file.
       Copyright (C) 2006 Free Software Foundation, Inc.
       Written by Shakthi Kannan <shaks@shakthimaan.com>.
    
       This file is part of the GNU Hurd.
    
       The GNU Hurd is free software; you can redistribute it and/or
       modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as
       published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2, or (at
       your option) any later version.
    
       The GNU Hurd is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
       WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
       MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU
       General Public License for more details.
    
       You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
       along with the GNU Hurd; if not, write to the Free Software
       Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139, USA.  */
    
    #ifndef _HURD_HELLO_H
    #define _HURD_HELLO_H	1
    
    struct hello
    {
      int x;
    };
    
    #endif	/* _HURD_HELLO_H */

Replace filename, year, author name and e-mail address appropriately.

Create a lhello.c file:

    /* lhello.c - Example library .c file.
       Copyright (C) 2006
       Free Software Foundation, Inc.
       Written by Shakthi Kannan <shaks@shakthimaan.com>.
       
       This file is part of the GNU Hurd.
    
       The GNU Hurd is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
       it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
       the Free Software Foundation; either version 2, or (at your option)
       any later version.
    
       The GNU Hurd is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
       but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
       MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
       GNU General Public License for more details.
    
       You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
       along with the GNU Hurd; see the file COPYING.  If not, write to
       the Free Software Foundation, 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139, USA.  */
    
    #include "lhello.h"
    
    void 
    print_hello (void)
    {
      struct hello example;
      example.x = 2;
      printf ("foo and bar are %d words!\n", example.x);
    } 

Replace header file year, author name and e-mail address appropriately.

Create a Makefile

    #
    #   Copyright (C) 2006 Free Software Foundation, Inc.
    #
    #   This file is part of the GNU Hurd.
    #
    #   The GNU Hurd is free software; you can redistribute it and/or
    #   modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as
    #   published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2, or (at
    #   your option) any later version.
    #
    #   The GNU Hurd is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
    #   WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
    #   MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU
    #   General Public License for more details.
    #
    #   You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
    #   along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
    #   Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139, USA.
    
    dir := libhello
    makemode := library
    
    libname := libhello
    SRCS = lhello.c
    installhdrs = lhello.h
    LCLHDRS = $(installhdrs)
    
    OBJS = $(SRCS:.c=.o)
    
    include ../Makeconf

Update the Makeconf file:

Add libhello to lib-subdirs target in the top-level Makefile in the Hurd
sources.

    cd build
    ../configure
    make

Testing the library
-------------------

Write a file, say, foo.c:

    /* foo.c */
    
    #define _GNU_SOURCE
    
    int
    main (int argc, char *argv[])
    {
      print_hello();
      return 0;
    }

Static compilation and linking method:

    gcc -g -o foo foo.c -L/path/to/libhello -lhello -static

Run the example:

    ./foo

Compilation and dynamic linking method:

    LD_LIBRARY_PATH=$LD_LIBRARY_PATH:/path/to/libhello
    gcc -g -o foo foo.c -L/path/to/libhello -lhello

where /path/to/libhello = /path/to/hurd/build/libhello

Run the example:

    ./foo
