[[!meta copyright="Copyright © 2007, 2008, 2010 Free Software Foundation,
Inc."]]

[[!meta license="""[[!toggle id="license" text="GFDL 1.2+"]][[!toggleable
id="license" text="Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this
document under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.2 or
any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no Invariant
Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.  A copy of the license
is included in the section entitled
[[GNU Free Documentation License|/fdl]]."]]"""]]

#libnetfs

##What This Is

This document is an attempt at a short overview of the main concepts
used in the process of development of translators using
*libnetfs*. You will **not** find here a detailed description of the
required callbacks (for this take a look at
<http://www.debian.org/ports/hurd/reference-manual/hurd.html>). You
will **not** find a complete example of code either (usually,
*unionfs* is suggested as an example)

##What libnetfs Is

*libnetfs* is a Hurd library used in writing translators providing
some virtual directory structures. For example, if you would like to
create a translator which shows a *.tar* archive in a unpacked way,
you will definitely want to use *libnetfs*. However, it is important
to understand one thing: real filesystem servers (like *ext3* and
such) do **not** use *libnetfs*, instead, they rely on *libdiskfs*,
which is, generally speaking, seriously different from *libnetfs*.

All in all, *libnetfs* is the library you would choose when you want
to write a translator which will show a file (or a directory) in a
modified way (for example, if you'd like to show only *.sh* files or
make an archive look unpacked). As different from *[[libtrivfs]]*, using
*libnetfs*, you can show to your clients not just a single file, but a
whole directory tree.

##How It Works: Short Description

With the aid of *libnetfs* a translator (supposedly) publishes a
directory tree. All lookups in this directory tree are directed to the
translator and the latter is free to provide whatever (consistent)
information as the result of the lookup. Of course, all other usual
requests like reading, writing, setting a translator, etc. are
directed to the translator, too. The translator has either to
implement the required functionality in the corresponding callback or
just return an appropriate error code (for example, EOPNOTSUPP), if
the callback is compulsory.

##The Main Concepts: Nodes

The most fundamental thing to understand about *libnetfs* is the
notion of a **node**. Nearly always there are two types of nodes in a
*libnetfs*-based translator:

* Generic **node**, defined in *&lt;hurd/netfs.h&gt;*. This node contains
  information read and written by the programmer (like field
  *nn_stat*), as well as some internal information (like fields
  *references* and *transbox*). Of course, the programmer is free to
  use these fields at will, but they should know what they are doing.

* Custom **netnode**, defined by the programmer and containing only
  the information valuable for the programmer, but not for *libnetfs*.

The generic node is probably the most important primitive introduced
by *libnetfs*. Callbacks receive the nodes they should work with as
parameters; some of them return nodes as the result of their
operation. To some extent of certainty, a *libnetfs* node can be
perceived similarly to a filesystem node -- the building-brick out of
which everything is composed.

As it can be seen from the definition in *&lt;hurd/netfs.h&gt;*, a reference
to a netnode is stored in each generic node. In a way, a netnode can
be perceived as the custom attachment to the information contained in
a generic node. The link between these is quite strong. At first this
might not look like a very important thing, but let's analyze a simple
example: you would like to show the contents of a directory in a
filtered way. As a filtering criterion you would like to use the
result of the execution of a command specified as a command line
argument to the translator. If a client looks up a 'file' in the
directory tree provided by the translator, the latter should feed the
name of the file to the filtering command and decide whether to hide
this file or not upon receiving the result.

To avoid trouble, the translator had better use the *absolute* name of
'file'. Obviously, the translator would like to organize all of the
nodes in a hierarchy. To make things work more or less fast, it is a
reasonable decision to construct the absolute path to a node at
creation and store it inside the netnode (which, in turn, is inside
the node). However, such an approach is not a good one when using
*libnetfs*. Generally speaking, a *new* generic node is created at
each lookup, and, together with it, a new netnode is constructed. The
conclusion is that a *libnetfs* node is a rather transient phenomenon,
and when we want to store some information which is relatively
expensive to obtain, we need something more than a generic node +
netnode. At this moment most of the translators (like *unionfs*,
*ftpfs*, etc.) introduce the concept of a **light node**.

A **light node** is a user-defined node which contains some
information expensive to obtain, which had better not be stored
directly in a netnode. All netnodes, contained in generic nodes which
resulted in lookups of the same file, share references (pointers,
actually) to a single light node. Light nodes are created when the
first attempt to lookup a file is done, and they are destroyed when no
netnodes reference them. It is very important to understand that
*libnetfs* does **not** enforce the programmer to define light
nodes. Everything can be stored within netnodes inside generic
nodes. Light nodes are just a matter of organizing data in an
efficient way.

Probably, you are already thinking ``Why cannot *netnodes* be shared?
Why do we need yet another notion?''. The answer is that the link
between a netnode and a *libnetfs* node should be one-to-one, because
netnodes usually store information specific of *only one* node, whilst
light nodes contain information common to several nodes. If one chose
to share netnodes, one would not be able to store additional
information per a *libnetfs* node, and this is quite a serious problem
in most practical problems.

##Why a libnetfs Node Is Not Quit a Filesystem Node

The most demonstrative argument in this case is the definition of
*struct node* in *&lt;hurd/netfs.h&gt;*. If you try to find in this
definition some reference to other generic node called *parent*, or an
array of references called *children* (which would be quite classical
for a member of a hierarchy), you will fail. There are fields *next*
and *prevp*, but these are for internal use and only include the node
in an internally maintained *list*, not a tree. Surprisingly enough,
*libnetfs* does **not** manage the tree-like structure for you. You
have to do that *on you own*. This is another moment when light nodes
come triumphantly to light. Most *libnetfs*-based translators organize
their light nodes in the tree-like structure reflecting the directory
tree shown to the user. When a lookup is performed, a light node is
either created or reused (if it has already been created in a previous
lookup). The result of the lookup is a *libnetfs* node created basing
on the information contained in the found light node.

From the point of view of a *libnetfs* programmer, light nodes are the
conceptual filesystem nodes. A translator knows who is the parent of
who *only* from studying the links between light nodes. And a light
node does contain a reference to its parent and an array of references
to children. When a translator is asked to fetch a file, it finds this
file in the tree of light nodes firstly, creates a *libnetfs* node
based on the found light node, and returns the latter as the
result. Therefore, it is not quite right to perceive *libnetfs* nodes
as filesystem nodes. Instead, the focus of attention should stay upon
light nodes.

##How It Works: A More Verbose Description

At first let us see how the a *libnetfs*-based translator responds to
lookup requests. At the beginning the *netfs_attempt_lookup* callback
is called. It knows the generic *libnetfs* node corresponding to the
directory under which the lookup shall take place, the name it has to
lookup, and the information about the user requesting the lookup. This
callback is supposed to create a new *libnetfs* node corresponding to
the requested file or return an error. As it has been said before,
usually translators browse their hierarchy of light nodes to know
whether a file exists within a directory or not. Note that
*netfs_attempt_lookup* does not know the flags with which a
*file_name_lookup* call is done, what it has to do is just to provide
a new node or return an error.

Then *netfs_validate_stat* callback is called and a node and
information about the user is passed inside. This callback is a rather
simple one: it has to assure that the *nn_stat* field of the supplied
node is valid and up to date. Translators which mirror parts of real
filesystem, like *unionfs*, usually treat the node corresponding to the
root of their node hierarchy in a specific way. The reason is that the
root node is not a mirror of a real file -- it is almost always a
directory in translators of this kind.

The third stage is an invocation of
*netfs_check_open_permissions*. This callback is, probably, one of the
simplest in most cases. It knows some information about the user
requesting the open, about the node that is about to be returned to
the user, and about the flags supplied by the user in the call to
*file_name_lookup*. Besides that, this callback is provided with the
information whether the requested lookup ended in creating a new file
or whether the requested file already
existed. *netfs_check_open_permissions* has to decide if the user has
the right to access the resulting file under the permissions specified
in flags. It has to return either 0 or the corresponding error.

These are the most basic steps of the lookup. Note that if the file
was requested with O_CREAT flag and *netfs_attempt_lookup* could not
locate this file, *netfs_attempt_create_file* is called. In many ways
a typical implementation of this callback might be similar to the
implementation of *netfs_attempt_lookup*. However,
*netfs_attempt_create_file* will most probably have to do less checks.

Let's move to listing the contents of a directory. The corresponding
callback, *netfs_get_dirents* is triggered when a user invokes
*dir_readdir* upon a directory provided by the translator. The
parameters of *netfs_get_dirents* are therefore very similar to the
parameters of *dir_readdir*. Actually, translator *fakeroot* only
calls *dir_readdir* in this callback and nothing more. In translators
which need more complex handling (like filtering the contents) the
code of this is more sophisticated. Sometimes the listing of directory
entries happens in several stages: *netfs_get_dirents* may call
something like *node_entries_get*, and the latter may invoke
*dir_entries_get*. The latter function calls *dir_readdir* and
converts the result to an array of *struct dirent*
's. *node_entries_get* converts the array of *struct dirent* 's to a
linked list and decides whether a specific file shall be included in
the result or not. Finally, *netfs_get_dirents* converts the linked
list provided by *node_entries_get* to the format of the result of
*dir_readdir* and returns the converted data to the user. The
described stages are the stages of listing directory entries in
*unionfs*, for instance.

Other callbacks are, generally speaking, less sophisticated. For
example, when the client wants to read (write) from a node provided
by *netfs_attempt_lookup*, the callback *netfs_attempt_read*
(*netfs_attempt_write*) is triggered. Both callbacks have sets of
parameters to the corresponding *io_read* and *io_write* functions.

While browsing the code of very many *libnetfs*-based translators, you
might notice that they define callbacks starting with
*netfs&#95;S&#95;*. Usually a name similar to that of one of the file
management function follows (like netfs&#95;S&#95;*dir_lookup*). These
callbacks are triggered when the corresponding functions are called on
files shown by the translator. Such translators override parts of the
core functionality provided by *libnetfs* to achieve better
performance or to solve specific problems.

##Synchronization is Crucial

A *libnetfs* programmer shall always keep in mind that, as different
from *[[libtrivfs]]*-based translators, *libnetfs*-based translators are
always multithreaded. To guard data against damage each node
incorporates a lock. Moreover, each light node usually contains a
lock, too. This happens because *libnetfs* nodes and light nodes are
loosely coupled and are often processed separately.

##Node Cache

Most of *libnetfs* translators organize a *node cache*. However, this
structure is not a real cache. The idea is to hold some control over
life and death of *libnetfs* nodes. The cache is usually a
doubly-linked list: each netnode contains a reference to the previous
node in the cache and a reference to the next one. When a new node is
created (for example, as a result of invocation of
*netfs_attempt_lookup*), it is registered in the cache and its number
of references is increased. It means that, by putting the node in the
cache, the translators gets hold of an extra reference to the
node. When in subsequent lookups the same nodes will be requested, the
translator can just reuse an already existing node.

Of course, the cache is limited in size. When the cache gets
overgrown, the nodes located at the tail of the list are removed from
the cache and the references to them are dropped. This triggers their
destruction (undertaken by *libnetfs*).

##What Files Are Usually Created

If you take into a look at the sources *ftpfs* or *unionfs* you will
notice files with names similar to the following:

* cache.{c,h} -- here the node implementation of the node cache
  resides.

* lib.{c,h}, dir.{c,h}, fs.{c,h} -- these contain the implementation
  of some internals. For example, the function *dir_entriesget*
  mentioned in the description of the process of listing directory
  entries, will most probably reside in one of these files.

* options.{c,h} -- here the option parsing mechanism is usually
  placed. Argp parsers are implemented here.

* &lt;*translator_name*&gt;.{c,h}, netfs.c -- the implementation of *netfs_\**
  callbacks will most probably lie in these files.

##What Netnodes and Light Nodes Usually Contain

A **netnode** usually contains a reference to a light node, some flags
describing the state of the associated generic *libnetfs* node, and
the references to the previous and the next elements in the node
cache.

A **light node** usually contains the name of the file associated with
this light node, the length of this name, some flags describing the
state of this light node. To make a light node fully usable in a
multithreaded program, a lock and a reference counter are almost
always incorporated in it. Since light nodes are organized in a
hierarchical way, they contain a reference to their parent, a
reference to their first child, and references to their siblings
(usually not very descriptively called *next* and *prevp*).

##The End

I very much hope this piece of text was at least a little
helpful. Here I tried to explain the things which I understood least
when I started learning *libnetfs* and which confused me most. Feel
free to complete this introduction :-)
