[[!meta copyright="Copyright © 2007, 2008, 2009 Free Software Foundation,
Inc."]]

[[!meta license="""[[!toggle id="license" text="GFDL 1.2+"]][[!toggleable
id="license" text="Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this
document under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.2 or
any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no Invariant
Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.  A copy of the license
is included in the section entitled
[[GNU Free Documentation License|/fdl]]."]]"""]]

`libstore` is used to provide a generic interface to access data (read/write)
on backing stores.

It more than just a thin layer between [[GNU Mach|microkernel/mach/gnumach]]
devices (`hd0` for example) and the device node below `/dev/`...


# Available Stores

* `device`: raw device access, used for access to `hd0`, etc.
* `file`: use a common file as some kind of block device.
* `zero`: kind of an empty block device.
* `task`: mach task store backend.  TODO: what's this?
* `ileave`: interleave store (striping).
* `concat`: concatenate stuff.
* `remap`: remap stuff.
* `query`: TODO: what's this?
* `copy`: provide a copy-on-write version of the backend; the changes are discarded on termination.
* `gunzip`: `gunzip` data on the fly.
* `bunzip2`: `bunzip2` data on the fly.
* `nbd`: network block device (Linux-compatible).
* `url`: typed store with URL syntax.
* `typed`: typed store (chainable stores thingy).

At <http://www.kataplop.net/pub/info/projets> you can find some effort to make
some crypto store.

At <http://www.trek.eu.org/devel/hurd/crypt-trans-0.0.3.tgz>, another package
can be found.


# Examples

[[!inline
pages="hurd/libstore/examples/* and !*/discussion"
show=0
feeds=no]]
