How to setup networking in the Hurd.

First, make sure that Mach recognizes your hardware.  <!-- If it doesn't, you can
to recompile it in most cases. [ADD LINK TO INFO ON THIS] -->

# The `pfinet` Translator

To configure the network, the `pfinet` (*Protocol Family Internet*) translator
must be configured.  This is done using the `settrans` command to attach a
translator to a given file system node.  When programs access the node by, for
example, sending an RPC, the Hurd will transparently start the server to handle
the request.

    # settrans -fgap /servers/socket/2 /hurd/pfinet -i eth0 \
               -a 192.168.0.50 -g 192.168.0.1 -m 255.255.255.0

Here, `settrans` is passed several options:

* `fg`, force any existing translator to go away.
* `ap`, make both active and passive translators.

The active translator means that the operating system both starts the
translator immediately and passinve means that the settings are saved in the
file system node.  The former also means that any error messages are sent to
`stderr`.

The argument `/server/socket/2` is the node that the translator is to be
attached to.  This is followed by the translator program to run and any
arguments to give it.

`-a`, `-g` and `-m` are, quite obviously, the IP address, the gateway and
netmask.

Help on settrans can be obtained by passing it the `--help` option.  Help on a
specific translator can be gotten by invoking it from the command line with the
same argument, e.g.:

    # /hurd/pfinet --help

As there can be a lot of output, consider piping this through a pager.

Finally copy over your `/etc/resolv.conf` from GNU/Linux to allow your DNS to
resolve correctly.
