These are some administratively inclined notes.

* While the new permanent home for this site is <http://hurd.gnufans.org> we need to find another place to host it when possible due to bandwidth restrictions. Please add your comments and suggestions. [[TWiki/HurdWikiMove]]
* See [[TWikiHostingStuff]], for standard TWiki Web miscellanea. Maintenance discussion regarding these pages is found in [[TWiki/TWikiDiscuss]]. Copyright and legal discussions are found at [[TWiki/HurdWikiCopyrightDiscuss]].
* General hosting software non-Hurd [[TeamWorkWiki]] specific information can be found by visiting the [[WelcomeGuest]] and the [[TWikiTutorial]] pages.

> **Example: Create a custom logo variable**
>
> <br />
>
> * To place a logo anywhere in a web by typing <code>**%MYLOGO%**</code>, simply define the variable on the web's [[WebPreferences]] page. You also have to upload `logo.gif` - this can be done by [[TWIKIWEBFileAttachment]] to `LogoTopic` (any topic name you choose):
>   * <code>**Set MYLOGO = %PUBURL%/%MAINWEB%/LogoTopic/logo.gif**</code>

For more useful variables see the %TWIKIWEB%.TWikiVariables page.

<form action="%SCRIPTURLPATH%/search%SCRIPTSUFFIX%/%WEB%/SearchResult">
  <ul>
    <li>[[WebIndex]]: Display all %WIKITOOLNAME%.%WEB% topics in alphabetical order. See also the faster [[WebTopicList]]</li>
    <li> %NOTIFYTOPIC%: Subscribe to be automatically notified when something changes in the %WIKITOOLNAME%.%WEB% web. </li>
    <li> %STATISTICSTOPIC%: View access statistics of the %WIKITOOLNAME%.%WEB% web. </li>
    <li> %WEBPREFSTOPIC%: Preferences of the %WIKITOOLNAME%.%WEB% web. </li>
  </ul>
</form>

%INCLUDE\{"%TWIKIWEB%.TWikiWebsTable"\}%

Here's a list of the plugins that are active right now. For more info [see here](http://twiki.org/cgi-bin/view/Plugins/PluginPackage).

%PLUGINDESCRIPTIONS%

[[KnownLimitForm]]

[[HurdReleaseForm]]

%SEARCH\{"Mediatype.\*?value=\\"Tarball"" scope="text" regex="on" nosearch="on" nototal="on" format="$topic",", "\}%
