This is an area to talk about how these pages are put together, edited and arranged. Without organization the navigation of the site could become unusable.

Please add your comments below and then your signature, Blog style.

-- [[Main/GrantBow]] - 13 May 2002

Two things I've been thinking about are removing much of the bottom half of the [[WebHome]] page (TWiki stuff) and creating a template to make pages here look identical to the <http://hurd.gnu.org> pages.

-- [[Main/GrantBow]] - 13 May 2002

Good idea!

-- [[Main/JoachimNilsson]] - 22 Nov 2002

Personally I'm still not happy with the way we administer the WebMenu. Currently there are X menus for X webs when we could have just one - the TWiki.WebMenu.

The menu is designed to, by default, only show items for the currently selected web. If it is OK with you I'll unify the menus and change the "Edit Menu" link to point to the TWiki.WebMenu

I noticed you've removed the DEFAULTITEMS completely. I think I know why - because the the names of the standard TWiki topics where too confus -- [[Main/JoachimNilsson]] - 22 Nov 2002

I created those menus because the default was not working correctly and I didn't know how else to fix it. Other than making it manual. Every menu was showing every item. I also wanted to set s specific order to the webs. If you can make it work exactly the way I've manually configured it, knock yourself out. It would be "better" to use some of the automated features, but I would rather that users get a consistent navigation than it not work correctly, you know?

My last round of edits to the [[WebMenus]] was to change [[MiG]] to Mig. The web names should be able to be used in a [[Mig/WebMenu]] fashion. Navigation must be consistent no matter how it's implemented.

-- [[Main/GrantBow]] - 22 Nov 2002

\*laughs\* He he, I was cut off in the beginning of a paragraph by our sysadmin at work. I'm glad you could interpret what I was going for anyway. :-)

Yep, I suspected as much about the WebMenu. It was a poor design choice from my part for this extended Hurd Wiki to have the possibility of more than one menu ... I'm fixing this today. All editing will now be from the TWiki.WebMenu from now on.

I completely agree about the navigation, good of you to spot all these inconsistencies!

From now on my involvment in the wiki will gradually be less. Mostly because I won't have as much time to work on it since my employer now has found stuff for me to do - and I'm also getting more and more distracted at home. Family duties and all that. :) But I'll still be around - hopefully I can put aside some work on fixing the OSKit stuff and similar.

-- [[Main/JoachimNilsson]] - 23 Nov 2002
