## <a name="_WIKITOOLNAME_WEB_Web_Preference"> %WIKITOOLNAME%.%WEB% Web Preferences </a>

The following settings are **_web preferences_** of the %WIKITOOLNAME%.%WEB% web. These preferences overwrite the **_site-level preferences_** in %TWIKIWEB%.%WIKIPREFSTOPIC%, and can be overwritten by **_user preferences_** (your personal topic, i.e. %MAINWEB%.TWikiGuest in the %WIKITOOLNAME%.%MAINWEB% web)

**_Preferences:_**

* List of topics of the %WIKITOOLNAME%.%WEB% web:
  * Set WEBTOPICLIST = [[WebPreferences]] | [[WebChanges]] | [[WebIndex]] | [[WebSearch]]  | Go <input name="topic" size="16" type="text" />

* Web specific background color: (Pick a lighter one of the %TWIKIWEB%.StandardColors)
  * Old setting Set WEBBGCOLOR = #D0D0D0, #EEEEEE is not in 256 color palette either.
  * Set WEBBGCOLOR = #CCCCCC

* Exclude web from a `web="all"` search: (Set to `on` for hidden webs)
  * Set NOSEARCHALL =

* Default template for new topics and form(s) for this web:
  * [[WebTopicEditTemplate]]: Default template for new topics in this web. (Site-level is used if topic does not exist)
  * [[TWIKIWEBWebTopicEditTemplate]]: Site-level default template
  * %TWIKIWEB%.TWikiForms: How to enable form(s)
  * Set WEBFORMS = [[HurdReleaseForm]], [[KnownLimitForm]]

* Users or groups who **_are not_** / **_are_** allowed to **_view_** / **_change_** / **_rename_** topics in the %WEB% web: (See %TWIKIWEB%.TWikiAccessControl)
  * Set DENYWEBVIEW =
  * Set ALLOWWEBVIEW =
  * Set DENYWEBCHANGE =
  * Set ALLOWWEBCHANGE =
  * Set DENYWEBRENAME =
  * Set ALLOWWEBRENAME =

* Users or groups allowed to change or rename this %TOPIC% topic: (I.e. %MAINWEB%.TWikiAdminGroup)
  * Set ALLOWTOPICCHANGE = [[Main/JoachimNilsson]], [[Main/GrantBow]]
  * Set ALLOWTOPICRENAME =

* Web preferences that are **not** allowed to be overridden by user preferences:
  * Set FINALPREFERENCES = WEBTOPICLIST, DENYWEBVIEW, ALLOWWEBVIEW, DENYWEBCHANGE, ALLOWWEBCHANGE, DENYWEBRENAME, ALLOWWEBRENAME

**_Notes:_**

* A preference is defined as: <br />`6 spaces * Set NAME = value`<br /> Example:
  * Set WEBBGCOLOR = #FFFFC0
* Preferences are used as %TWIKIWEB%.TWikiVariables by enclosing the name in percent signs. Example:
  * When you write variable <code>%WEBBGCOLOR%</code> , it gets expanded to `%WEBBGCOLOR%` .
* The sequential order of the preference settings is significant. Define preferences that use other preferences first, i.e. set <code>WEBCOPYRIGHT</code> before <code>WIKIWEBMASTER</code> since <code>%WEBCOPYRIGHT%</code> uses the <code>%WIKIWEBMASTER%</code> variable.
* You can introduce new preferences variables and use them in your topics and templates. There is no need to change the %WIKITOOLNAME% engine (Perl scripts).

**_Related Topics:_**

* %TWIKIWEB%.%WIKIPREFSTOPIC% has site-level preferences.
* %MAINWEB%.%WIKIUSERSTOPIC% has a list of user topics. User topics can have optional user preferences.
* %TWIKIWEB%.TWikiVariables has a list of common <code>%VARIABLES%</code>.
* %TWIKIWEB%.TWikiAccessControl explains how to restrict access by users or groups.
