[[!meta copyright="Copyright © 2005, 2006, 2007, 2008, 2010, 2012, 2013, 2014,
2016 Free Software Foundation, Inc."]]

[[!meta license="""[[!toggle id="license" text="GFDL 1.2+"]][[!toggleable
id="license" text="Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this
document under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.2 or
any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no Invariant
Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.  A copy of the license
is included in the section entitled [[GNU Free Documentation
License|/fdl]]."]]"""]]

[[!tag open_issue_gnumach]]

# Restructure the tree in a sane way

Merge `linux/src` and `linux/dev`.  But only if using a sane RCS, so leave it
as-is for now.  Also, a bunch of (header) files from there may probably be
discarded.


# Remove dead files from the GNU Mach source tree

For *exported* files (via `make install`), the plan is to first stick some
`#error This file is scheduled for removal.  Write to <bug-hurd@gnu.org> if you
have a reason to have it kept available.` into them, and then actually remove
them after some months.

For some of the internal header files (containing function prototypes and the
like), it might actually be useful to use them.  (And then get rid of a bunch
of `extern ...` statements in other files.)

This following list was assembled by putting such a `#error ...` line into each
of the `gnumach-1-branch`'s header files (exported and internal; save the
`linux/` ones (only internal) for simplicity), and then trying to build GNU
Mach until this would succeed again (by removing offending `#error ...`s), and
afterwards using the set of exported files for building a cross toolchain
(again still removing offending `#error ...`s).  A very crude and imprecise
method.

So, additionally to the list given below, there may actually be a bunch of
further files (also exported ones) that serve no real value, but are being
`#include`d through one way or another.

* [[!source_gnumach-1-branch ddb/db_expr.h]]

    Currently used, but copyright violation?  Rewrite?

* [[!source_gnumach-1-branch ddb/db_print.h]]

    Copyright violation?  Currently unused, but could be used in principle (or
    be rewritten, to avoid the copyright oddity).

* [[!source_gnumach-1-branch ddb/tr.h]]

    Copyright violation.  Unused.  Remove.

* [[!source_gnumach-1-branch device/dev_master.h]]

    Might be usable for SMP?  Remove otherwise.

* [[!source_gnumach-1-branch i386/i386/kttd_machdep.h]]

* [[!source_gnumach-1-branch i386/i386/sched_param.h]]

* [[!source_gnumach-1-branch i386/include/mach/i386/cthreads.h]]

    Was probably once exported, but is no longer.

* [[!source_gnumach-1-branch i386/include/mach/i386/ioccom.h]]

    Exported.

* [[!source_gnumach-1-branch include/device/audio_status.h]]

    Exported.

* [[!source_gnumach-1-branch include/device/tape_status.h]]

    Exported.

* [[!source_gnumach-1-branch include/mach/alert.h]]

    Exported.

* [[!source_gnumach-1-branch include/mach/boot.h]]

    Exported.

* [[!source_gnumach-1-branch include/mach/macro_help.h]]

    Exported.

* [[!source_gnumach-1-branch include/mach/multiboot.h]]

    Exported.

* [[!source_gnumach-1-branch include/mach/profil.h]]

    Exported.

* [[!source_gnumach-1-branch include/mach/profilparam.h]]

    Exported.

* [[!source_gnumach-1-branch include/mach/exec/a.out.h]]

    Exported.

* [[!source_gnumach-1-branch include/mach_debug/pc_info.h]]

    Currently not exported, but was probably once meant to be.

* [[!source_gnumach-1-branch kern/act.h]]

* [[!source_gnumach-1-branch kern/refcount.h]]

* [[!source_gnumach-1-branch kern/shuttle.h]]


# Remove dead functions, variables, etc. from source files


# Rewrite ugly code


# IRC, freenode, #hurd, 2012-09-06

    <mcsim> hello. Why size parameter of rpc device_read has type
      "mach_msg_type_number_t *"? Why not just "vm_size_t *"?
    <mcsim> this parameter has name data_count
    <braunr> that's one of the reasons mach is confusing
    <braunr> i can't really tell you why, it's messy :/


# [[open_issues/Code_Analysis]], *Coverity*

## IRC, freenode, #hurd, 2014-02-03

    <teythoon> braunr: at the end of kmem_cache_error the comment says 'never
      reached'. i do not believe that to be true...
    <braunr> teythoon: yes, this is a mistake
    <braunr> those kmem_error calls were panics in the original version
    <braunr> the comment was left over
    <braunr> or rather, the panic equivalent not added


### IRC, freenode, #hurd, 2014-02-04

    <teythoon> braunr: but the code relies uppon the fact that kmem_cache_error
      does not return
    <teythoon> the fact that it doesn't upsets static analysis tools
    <teythoon>
      http://darnassus.sceen.net/~teythoon/qa/gnumach/scan-build/2014-01-17/report-DfjC43.html#Path9
    <braunr> 21:20 < braunr> or rather, the panic equivalent not added
    <braunr> teythoon: you're right
    <braunr> it needs to be fixed
    <teythoon> i setup a coverity project for gnu mach
    <teythoon> it's interesting
    <teythoon> very enterprisy >,<
    <braunr> teythoon: heh
    <teythoon> braunr: i assume kmem_error is supposed to panic
    <teythoon> if so, i'd propose to use panic instead of printf in that macro
      definition
    <braunr> yes
    <braunr> teythoon: again, that's how it's done in the original
      implementation
    <teythoon> and fix kmem_cache_error to use kmem_warn near the top of the
      function
    <braunr> teythoon: i suggest you use the x15 variant as a reference
      (https://git.sceen.net/rbraun/x15.git/plain/kern/kmem.c)
    <teythoon> right


### IRC, OFTC, #debian-hurd, 2014-02-05

    <pere> ah, cool.  <URL: https://scan.coverity.com/projects/1307 >
      is now in place. :)
    <teythoon> pere: it was you who made me create the coverity project
    <teythoon> and it was most fruitful already
    <pere> glad to hear that. :)
    <pere> while the mach thread made me discover scan-build, which
      seem promising but have way to few rules.
    <pere> teythoon: btw, could I get access to the mach coverity
      status?
    <teythoon> pere: sure
    <pere> I've used up all my 'join project' slots, so I suspect you
      have to invite me.  try pere@hungry.com
    <teythoon> pere: ok
    <teythoon> pere: i'm fuzzy about the roles
    <teythoon> what kind of invite shall i send you ?
    <pere> not sure either.
    <teythoon> ok
    <pere> contributor/* would be fine for me.  want to check the
      details, not just the overview.
    <teythoon> oh
    * pere looked up the role description
    <teythoon> do you have a link ?
    <teythoon> i can always change the role afaics
    <pere> go to the member list, found it there.
    <pere> (the link is project specific, it seem.
    <teythoon> right, found it
    <pere> gah, it gave me a new user. :(
    <pere> I assumed I would be allowed to accept the invite using my
      normal user.
    <pere> can you try again with pere-github@hungry.com, which
      hopefully will hook the invite to my github authenticated user?
    <teythoon> sure
    <pere> were you allowed to invite that address?
    <pere> ah, I got it in my dashboard without having to do anything
      more.
    <pere> heh, the email I got claimed the user would not be created
      unless I provided a password, but given the member list for mach,
      I fail to see how that could be true.


### IRC, OFTC, #debian-hurd, 2014-02-06

    <teythoon> pere: your coverity invitations are still saying 'not
      accepted', did neither work ?
    <pere> teythoon: one worked just fine.  I got access.  the other I
      did not accept.
    <teythoon> pere: good :)


### IRC, OFTC, #debian-hurd, 2014-02-25

    <pere> I am quite impressed with the defect density of Mach, <URL:
      https://scan.coverity.com/projects/1307 >. :)
    <pere> 12 outstanding issues (but 54 dismissed was surprisingly
      high :).
    <youpi> pere: 54 dismissed because that's a pattern generated by
      mig
    <youpi> repeated dozens of times

[[!tag open_issue_mig]]
