[[meta copyright="Copyright © 2007 Free Software Foundation, Inc."]]
[[meta license="Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this
document under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.2 or
any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no Invariant
Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.  A copy of the license
is included in the section entitled
[[GNU_Free_Documentation_License|/fdl]]."]]

# How cool it would be if the email becomes similar to snail mail?

## Let see how the snail mail works
   You write the letter with a pen and paper
   You write the "To" address
   Post it -> Put it in a Post Box

## How Email works
   You have your email client (and there comes the limitation, you can't use your favourite editor)
   Fill in destination email address 
   Send it (May be a send button or a keyboard shortcut)

## What are the problems 
   If you want to use a wordprocessor for sending email, it should implement a feature like mail merge, suppose it doesn't have such a feature then? You copy and paste it to your email client and if it doesn't support HTML? Well you have work arounds for all these, but how cool it would be if you have something like this:

   You create a file, use any wordprocessor or text editor.
   Right click and see the properties
   Set the "To" field
   Drag it to the Post Box icon on your panel next to Trash

## How can we implement it?
   An SMTP translator which uses extended atributes 

## Comments
IRC Logs about the discussion on #hurd
<verbatim>

<manuel>j4v4m4n: isn't the HHG a good enough libtrivfs tutorial?
<manuel> the problem I have with mail, blog, ..., translators is that you want to save mails before sending them, so you can't edit directly into the translator
<j4v4m4n> manuel, may be we want a simpler one, all of us are beginners except AB
<manuel> they're not stream-based so unless you save it into memory and wait for "sync" to send mails, it doesn't seem well suited
<manuel> who's AB?
<j4v4m4n> manuel, create any file with your favourite editor and copy it to the directory where SMTP translator is sitting 
<j4v4m4n> manuel, Anand Babu
<manuel> sure, but how is that better than sending it via the "mail" command then?
<manuel> except it's less hype, of course.
<j4v4m4n> manuel, http://savannah.gnu.org/users/ab
<j4v4m4n> manuel, it would be cool :-)
<manuel> still not convinced :)
* schlesix (n=thomas@xdsl-81-173-230-219.netcologne.de) has joined #hurd
<j4v4m4n> manuel, set up SMTP translator on the desktop and may be add it next to the Trash :-) 
<j4v4m4n> manuel, have a nice postbox icon
<j4v4m4n> manuel, drag your files to it
<j4v4m4n> manuel, it would be closer to the real world and snail mail
<bvk> j4v4m4n: To whom do they go?
<manuel> bvk: the file must be preformatted, probably
<j4v4m4n> bvk, in snail mail you will write to address on top of the envelop, right?
<manuel> j4v4m4n: yeah well, it could make sense in a desktop envronment
<j4v4m4n> bvk, here we can have it as the first line of the file
<manuel> not sure
<bvk> j4v4m4n: i never used snail :(
<j4v4m4n> manuel, that is what I have in mind
* j4v4m4n like snail mail that email
<manuel> bvk: you never sent a mail via snail mail?! :)
* j4v4m4n like snail mail more than email
<bvk> manuel: nope :( whats that btw?
<j4v4m4n> manuel, or why not have it as the file property itself??
<bvk> manuel: you know its first time i hear it *snail mail* :((
<j4v4m4n> bvk, the normal mails which a postman delivers :-)
<j4v4m4n> manuel, you create a file text, open document or whatver format
<manuel> j4v4m4n: I'm quite sure it'd make things more complicated in the end, using file properties, dragging files etc.
<j4v4m4n> manuel, righ click and see properties and set the to field
<bvk> Oh, these english words... :X
<j4v4m4n> manuel, we can use the xtended atributes
<j4v4m4n> manuel, which really showcase the power of hurd
<j4v4m4n> manuel, it becomes closer to the real world
<bvk> actually, is X working on hurd?
<j4v4m4n> bvk, well it used to work and the new Xorg release has som