[[meta copyright="Copyright © 2007 Free Software Foundation, Inc."]]
[[meta license="Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this
document under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.2 or
any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no Invariant
Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.  A copy of the license
is included in the section entitled
[[GNU_Free_Documentation_License|/fdl]]."]]

Welcome, This document is for getting you started in a few minutes.    

   1. Install Qemu for Windows
      The executable can be downloaded from <http://free.oszoo.org/ftp/qemu/win32/release/>  Doble click on the installer and follow the instructions.
   2. Obtain Qemu image 
      *  Debain GNU/Hurd qemu image can be downloaded from <http://www.numenor.art.pl/balrog/hurd/> 
      *  Uncompress the image and rename it to debian-hurd-for-qemu.img (.img is the only thing that matters, you can chose 
      any name)
      Note: .img is for QEMUMenu.bat, which saves you from remembering the command line options of qemu and helps you  
      change the settings (like chosing different images, allocating RAM for the guest OS ...) interactivly.
      * Copy this file to the directory where you installed Qemu.
   3. Start Qemu
      Double click the QEMUMenu.bat and enter the number to chose between images.
   4. Qemu short cuts
      * ctrl alt - to exit grab from qemu, get mouse cursor out from the qemu window
      * ctrl alt f - full screen
      * ctrl alt 2 - qemu contrl console, use this to change devices (eg. changing cdrom), send keys to the guest (for example if you want to send ctrl alt del to the guest type "sendkey ctrl-alt-del" ... type "help" for a listing of all the options.
      * ctrl alt 1 - Hurd login console

-- PraveenA - 14 May 2006