[[!meta copyright="Copyright © 2001, 2002, 2003, 2004, 2005, 2006, 2007, 2008,
2009, 2010, 2011, 2013, 2015, 2016 Free Software Foundation, Inc."]]

[[!meta license="""[[!toggle id="license" text="GFDL 1.2+"]][[!toggleable
id="license" text="Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this
document under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.2 or
any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no Invariant
Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.  A copy of the license
is included in the section entitled [[GNU Free Documentation
License|/fdl]]."]]"""]]

The GNU Hurd is under active development.  Because of that, there is no
*stable* version.  We mainly distribute the Hurd sources through
[[Git|source_repositories]].  The latest release is [[GNU Hurd
0.8|news/2016-05-18-releases]].

Although it is possible to bootstrap the GNU/Hurd system from the sources by
cross-compiling and installing the system software and the basic applications,
this is a difficult process.  It is not recommended that you do this.  Instead,
you should get a binary distribution of the GNU/Hurd, which comes with all the
GNU software precompiled and an installation routine which is easy to use.

The Debian project has commited to provide such a binary distribution.
[[Debian_GNU/Hurd|running/debian]] is currently under development and available
in the *unstable* branch of the Debian archive.

---

[[!toc]]

# Introduction

* [[What_Is_the_GNU_Hurd]] - A Brief Description
* [[Advantages]].  And [[challenges]].
* [[History]]
    * [[history/Port_to_another_microkernel]]
* [[Logo]]
* [[Status]]
* [[Translation]] - Localized sites about the Hurd
* [[Donate]]
* [[SeenHurd]] - Media references
* [[Shopping]] - Hurd Gear
* [[FunnyHurd]] - From a different Herd
* [[FAQ]]

# Understanding

* Introductory Material
  * [[Documentation]]
  * [Gaël Le Mignot](http://kilobug.free.fr/hurd/pres-en/slides/slides.html)
  * [Neal Walfield](http://kerneltrap.org/node/5)
* Architecture
  * [[Towards_a_New_Strategy_of_OS_Design|hurd-paper]] by Thomas Bushnell, BSG.
      * Marcus Brinkmann's [revisit](http://lists.gnu.org/archive/html/l4-hurd/2005-10/msg00651.html)
      * Jonathan S. Shapiro [comments](http://lists.gnu.org/archive/html/l4-hurd/2005-10/msg00654.html)
  * [[Critique]] - Analysis
  * [[Hurd_Hacking_Guide]]
* [[Concepts]]

# Using

* [[Running]]
* [[running/Distrib]] -- Distributions
* [[Public_Hurd_Boxen]]
* [[Neighborhurd]]s and [[Subhurd]]s
* [[DDE]] -- Device Driver Environment

## Common Problems

* [[GNUstep]]
* [[XattrHurd]]: Setting translators under GNU/Linux
* [[SerialConsole]]: Setting up a serial console.

# Contributing

* [[Contributing]]

* [[Open Issues|tag/open_issue_hurd]]

# Developer References

* [[Coding_Style]]
* [[Rules]]
* [[Trackers]]
* [[Building]]
* [[Toolchain]]
    * [[glibc]]
* RPC [[Interface]]s
* Libraries
  * [[libpager]]
  * [[libports]]
  * [[libstore]]
  * [[libchannel]]
  * [[libtrivfs]]
  * [[libnetfs]] -- short introductory material
  * [[libdiskfs]]
  * [[libihash]]
  * [[libpthread]]
  * [[libfshelp]]
  * [[libps]]
* In-development Libraries
  * [[libfuse]]
* Discontinued Libraries
  * [[libthreads]]
* [[IO_Path]]
* [[Porting]]
* [[Debugging]]
* [[Networking]]
* [[Console]]
