[[meta copyright="Copyright © 2007 Free Software Foundation, Inc."]]
[[meta license="Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this
document under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.2 or
any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no Invariant
Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.  A copy of the license
is included in the section entitled
[[GNU_Free_Documentation_License|/fdl]]."]]

## Hurd Compilation

I checked out the source code on my Ubuntu GNU/Linux system connected to the Internet using:

<pre>  cvs -z3 -d:pserver:anonymous@cvs.savannah.gnu.org:/sources/hurd co hurd</pre>

I mounted the hurd directory on Ubuntu from my GNU Hurd system connected to the LAN through NFS:

<pre>  settrans -ac /mnt /hurd/nfs ubuntu:/home/shaks/code </pre>

Copy the hurd directory, locally.

For compilation, you require build-essential, libc0.3-dev, hurd-dev. I used Debian GNU Hurd K10 CDs for installation and they are available in the first CD.

<pre>  
  apt-get update
  apt-get install build-essential libc0.3-dev hurd-dev
</pre>

Enter into the hurd directory and start building it:

<pre>  cd hurd
  mkdir build 
  cd build 
  ../configure
  make
</pre>

There is a "libiohelp needed by" error. So, do a manual compilation for libiohelp.

<pre>  
  cd ..
  make libiohelp
  cd build
  make
</pre>

There is a "libiostore needed by" error. So, do a manual compilation for libiostore.

<pre>  
  cd ..
  make libiostore
  cd build
  make
</pre>

There is a "libiohelp.so: No such file or directory" error. 

Copy libiohelp/libiohelp.so file to build/libiohelp/ and re-run make,

<pre>  make </pre>

The executables are created in the subdirectories in build/ directory.

-- ShakthiKannan - 31 Oct 2006