[[!meta copyright="Copyright © 2001, 2002, 2003, 2004, 2006, 2007, 2008, 2009,
2010, 2011 Free Software Foundation, Inc."]]

[[!meta license="""[[!toggle id="license" text="GFDL 1.2+"]][[!toggleable
id="license" text="Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this
document under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.2 or
any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no Invariant
Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.  A copy of the license
is included in the section entitled [[GNU Free Documentation
License|/fdl]]."]]"""]]

[[!meta title="IRC"]]

While all official development takes place on the mailing lists and the Savannah trackers, 
a lot of discussions are had on IRC as well. Everybody is welcome to join and follow these channels, but please 
respect the below guidelines if you want to participate.

# Asking Questions
 
[[!inline pages=asking_questions raw=yes feeds=no]]

# Staying On-Topic

Please try to stay on topic.

* emacs vs. vi **is not** on topic
* If it is appropriate for a **slashdot comment**, it's **not appropriate**
  here
* why GNU sucks is **off-topic**
* when the next release of the Hurd will be **is inappropriate**
* you should not advocate your favorite **GNU/Linux** ditribution

# Pasting Logs

Sometimes providing a log or some other excerpt of text can
help solve a problem or answer a question.  **Do not** paste
the log in the channel itself.  Instead use a
[paste bin](http://paste.debian.net).

# Rich Text

Don't use it.  Don't use colors.  Don't use bold.  Don't use emphasis.

# Greeting

If you never contribute to the discussion, there is no need
to always greet the channel when you enter and before leave.


<a name="regular_meetings"></a>
# Regular Meetings

Starting in early 2008, there have been regular IRC meetings held between the
(now former) [[Google Summer of Code|community/gsoc]] students and their
mentors.  These meetings turned out to considerably help student-mentor
interactions, and other developers regularely took part, too.
<!--
For this reason, we decided to continue having these meetings, even if it's not
currently Google Summer of Code time.
-->
Currently, the meetings take place in the **`#hurd` channel every
Tuesday at 19:00 UTC** and are open to any interested party.  So,
everyone, take your chance to chat with GNU Hurd developers!


# Channels

All Hurd IRC channels are hosted on [Freenode.net](http://freenode.net/). 

* #hurd - The official Hurd IRC channel. Some of the Hurd developers and users hang out there, and discussions about GNU Hurd, GNU/Hurd and 
Debian GNU/Hurd are had there.

Local user channels include:

* #hurd-it - Italian
* #hurd-es - Spanish
* #hurdfr  - French
* #hurd-de - German
* #hurd.in - Indian regional languages(but primarily English)

# Channel logs

* [#hurd logs](http://richtlijn.be/~larstiq/hurd/)


# Related

  * [[Contact_us]].
