[[!meta copyright="Copyright © 2005, 2007, 2008, 2009, 2010, 2013 Free Software
Foundation, Inc."]]

[[!meta license="""[[!toggle id="license" text="GFDL 1.2+"]][[!toggleable
id="license" text="Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this
document under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.2 or
any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no Invariant
Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.  A copy of the license
is included in the section entitled [[GNU Free Documentation
License|/fdl]]."]]"""]]

QEMU is free software written by Fabrice Bellard that implements a fast
processor [[emulator|emulation]], allowing a user to run one operating system
within another one.  It is similar to projects such as Bochs and VMware
Workstation, but has several features these lack, including increased speed and
support for multiple architectures.  By using dynamic translation it achieves a
reasonable speed while being easy to port on new host CPUs.

QEMU has two operating modes:

  * User mode emulation: QEMU can launch Linux processes compiled for one CPU
    on another CPU.  Linux [[system call]]s are converted because of endianness
    and 32/64 bit mismatches.  Wine and Dosemu are the main targets for QEMU.

  * System mode emulation: QEMU emulates a full system, including a processor
    and various peripherials.  It enables easier testing and debugging of
    system code.  It can also be used to provide virtual hosting of several
    virtual PCs on a single server.

The majority of the program is under the [[LGPL]], with the system mode
emulation under the [[GPL]].

# External Links

  * <http://www.nongnu.org/qemu/>
  * [Qemu on Windows](http://www.h7.dion.ne.jp/~qemu-win/)
