[[!meta copyright="Copyright © 2012, 2013 Free Software Foundation, Inc."]]

[[!meta license="""[[!toggle id="license" text="GFDL 1.2+"]][[!toggleable
id="license" text="Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this
document under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.2 or
any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no Invariant
Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.  A copy of the license
is included in the section entitled [[GNU Free Documentation
License|/fdl]]."]]"""]]

[[!tag open_issue_mig]]

Every [[message]] has an ID field, which is defined in the [[RPC]] `*.defs`
files.

[[!toc]]

See also [[open_issues/versioning]].


# IRC, freenode, #hurd, 2012-07-12

[Extending an existing RPC.]

    <antrik> create a new call, either with a new variant of vm_statistics_t,
      or a new structure with only the extra fields
    <braunr> that seems cleaner indeed
    <braunr> but using different names for the same thing seems so tedious and
      unnecessary :/
    <antrik> it's extra effort, but it pays off
    <braunr> i agree, it's the right way to do it
    <braunr> but this implies some kind of versioning
    <braunr> which is currently more or less done using mig subsystem numbers,
      and skipping obsolete calls in rpc definition files
    <braunr> and a subsystem is like 100 calls (200 with the replies)
    <braunr> at some point we should recycle them
    <braunr> or use truely huge ranges
    <antrik> braunr: that's not something we need to worry about until we get
      there -- which is not likely to happen any time soon :-)
    <braunr> "There is no more room in this interface for additional calls."
    <braunr> in mach.defs
    <braunr> i'll use the mach4.defs file
    <braunr> but it really makes no sense at all to do such things just because
      we want to be compatible with 20 year old software nobody uses any more
    <braunr> who cares about the skips used to keep us from using the old mach
      2.5 interface ..
    <braunr> (and this 100 arbitrary limit is really ugly too)
    <antrik> braunr: I agree that we don't want to be compatible with 20 years
      old software. just Hurd stuff from the last few years is perfectly fine.
    <tschwinge> braunr, antrik: I agree with the approach of using a new
      RPC/data structure for incompatible changes, and I also agree that
      recycling RPC slots that have been unused (skipped) for some years is
      fine.
    <antrik> tschwinge: well, we probably shouldn't just reuse them
      arbitrarily; but rather do a mass purge if the need really arises...
    <antrik> it would be confusing otherwise IMHO
    <tschwinge> antrik: What do you understand by doing a mass purge?
    <tschwinge> My idea indeed was to replace arbitrary "skip"s by new RPC
      definitions.
    <braunr> a purge would be good along with a mig change to make subsystem
      and routines identifier larger
    <braunr> i guess 16-bits width should do
    <tschwinge> But what do you unterstand by a "purge" in this context.
    <braunr> removing all the skips
    <tschwinge> But that moves the RPC ids following after?
    <braunr> yes
    <braunr> that's why i think it's not a good thing, unless we also change
      the numbering
    <tschwinge> ... which is a incompatible change for all clients.
    <braunr> yes
    <tschwinge> OK, so you'd propose a new system and deprecate the current
      one.
    <braunr> not really new
    <braunr> just larger numbers
    <braunr> we must acknowledge interfaces change with time
    <tschwinge> Yes, that's "new" enough.  ;-)
    <tschwinge> New in the sense that all clients use new iterfaces.
    <braunr> that's enough to completely break compability, yes
    <braunr> at least binary
    <tschwinge> Yes.
    <tschwinge> However, I don't see an urgent need for that, do you?
    <tschwinge> Why not just recycled a skip that has been unused for a decade?
    <braunr> i don't think we should care much about that, as the only real
      issue i can see is when upgrading a system
    <braunr> i don't say we shouldn't do that
    <braunr> actually, my current patch does exactly this
    <tschwinge> OK.  :-)
    <braunr> purging is another topic
    <braunr> but purging without making numbers larger seems a bit pointless
    <braunr> as the point is allowing developers to change interfaces without
      breaking short time compability 
    <braunr> compatibility*
    <braunr> also, interfaces, even stable, can have more than 100 calls
    <braunr> (at the same time, i don't think there would ever be many
      interfaces, so using 16-bits integers for the subsystems and the calls
      should really be fine, and cleanly aligned in memory)
    <antrik> tschwinge: you are right, it was a brain fart :-)
    <antrik> no purge obviously
    <antrik> but I think we only should start with filling skips once all IDs
      in the subsystem are exhausted
    <antrik> braunr: the 100 is not fixed in MIG IIRC; it's a definition we
      make somewhere
    <antrik> BTW, using multiple subsystems for "overflowing" interfaces is a
      bit ugly, but not to bad I'd say... so I wouldn't really consider this a
      major problem
    <antrik> err... not too bad
    <antrik> especially since Hurd subsystem usually are spaced 1000 aways, so
      there are some "spare" blocks between them anyways
    <braunr> hm i'm almost sure it's related to mig
    <braunr> that's how the reply id is computed
    <antrik> of course it is related to MIG... but I have a vague recollection
      that this constant is not fixed in the MIG code, but rather supplied
      somewhere. might be wrong though :-)
    <pinotree> you mean like the 101-200 skip block in hurd/tioctl.defs?
    <antrik> pinotree: exactly
    <antrik> these are reserved for reply message IDs
    <antrik> at 200 a new request message block begins...
    <braunr> server.c:    fprintf(file, "\tOutP->Head.msgh_id = InP->msgh_id +
      100;\n");
    <braunr> it's not even a define in the mig code :/
    <pinotree> meaning that in the space of an hurd subsystem there are max 500
      effective rpc's?
    <antrik> actually, ioctls are rather special, as the numbers are computed
      from the ioctl properties...
    <antrik> braunr: :-(
    <braunr> pinotree: how do you get this value ?
    <pinotree> braunr: 1000/2? :)
    <braunr> ?
    <braunr> why not 20000/3 ?
    <antrik> pinotree: yes
    <braunr> where do they come from ?
    <braunr> ah ok sorry
    <pinotree> braunr: 1000 is the space of each subsystem, and each rpc takes
      an id + its replu
    <pinotree> *reply
    <braunr> right
    <braunr> 500 is fine
    <braunr> better than 100
    <braunr> but still, 64k is way better
    <braunr> and not harder to do
    <pinotree> (hey, i'm the noob in this :) )
    <antrik> braunr: it's just how "we" lay out subsystems... nothing fixed
      about it really; we could just as well define new subsystems with 10000
      or whatever if we wanted
    <braunr> yes
    <braunr> but we still have to consider this mig limit
    <antrik> there are one or two odd exceptions though, with "related"
      subsystems starting at ??500...
    <antrik> braunr: right. it's not pretty -- but I wouldn't consider it
      enough of a problem to invest major effort in changing this...
    <braunr> agreed
    <braunr> at least not while our interfaces don't change often
    <braunr> which shouldn't happen any time soon

    <tschwinge> Hmm, I also remember seeing some emails about indeed versioning
      RPCs (by Roland, I think).  I can try to look that up if there's
      interest.

    <braunr> i'm only adding a cached pages count you know :)
    <braunr> (well actually, this is now a vm_stats call that can replace
      vm_statistics, and uses flavors similar to task_info)
    <antrik> braunr: I don't think introducing "flavors" is a good idea
    <braunr> i just did it the way others calls were done
    <braunr> other*
    <braunr> woud you prefer a larger structure with append-only upgrades ?
    <antrik> I prefer introducing new calls. it avoids an unncessary layer of
      indirection
    <antrik> flavors are not exactly RPC-over-RPC, but definitely going down
      that road...
    <braunr> right
    <antrik> as fetching VM statistics is not performance-critical, I would
      suggest adding a new call with only the extra stats you are
      introducing. then if someone runs an old kernel not implementing that
      call, the values are simply left blank in the caller. makes
      backward-compatibility a no-brainer
    <antrik> (the alternative is a new call fetching both the traditional and
      the new stats -- but this is not necessary here, as an extra call
      shouldn't hurt)
    <braunr> antrik: all right


## IRC, freenode, #hurd, 2012-07-13

    <braunr> so, should i replace old, unused mach.defs RPCs with mine, or add
      them to e.g. mach4.defs ?
    <antrik> braunr: hm... actually I wonder whether we shouldn't add a
      gnumach.defs -- after all, it's neither old mach nor mach4 interfaces...
    <braunr> true
    <braunr> good idea
    <braunr> i'll do just that
    <braunr> hm, doesn't adding a new interface file requires some handling in
      glibc ?
    <youpi> simply rebuild it
    <braunr> youpi: no i mean
    <braunr> youpi: glibc knows about mach.defs and mach4.defs, but i guess we
      should add something so that it knows about gnumach.defs
    <youpi> ah
    <youpi> probably, yes
    <braunr> ok
    <braunr> i don't understand why these files are part of the glibc headers
    <pinotree> are they?
    <braunr> (i mean mach_interface.h and mach4.h)
    <braunr> for example
    <braunr> youpi: the interface i'll add is vm_cache_statistics(task,
      &cached_objects, &cached_pages)
    <braunr> if it's ok i'll commit directly into the gnumach repository
    <youpi> shouldn't it rather be a int array, to make it extensible?
    <youpi> like other stat functions of gnumach
    <braunr> antrik was against doing that
    <braunr> well, he was against using flavors
    <braunr> maybe we could have an extensible array yes, and require additions
      at the end of the structure


## IRC, freenode, #hurd, 2012-07-14

    <antrik> braunr: there are two reasons why the files are part of glibc. one
      is that glibc itself uses them, so it would be painful to handle
      otherwise. the other is that libc is traditionally responsible for
      providing the system interface...
    <antrik> having said that, I'm not sure we should stick with that :-)
    <braunr> antrik: what do you think about having a larger structure with
      reserved fields ? sounds a lot better than flavors, doesn't it ?
    <youpi> antrik: it's in debian, yes
    <braunr> grmbl, adding a new interface just for a single call is really
      tedious
    <braunr> i'll just add it to mach4
    <antrik> braunr: well, it's not unlikely there will be other new calls in
      the future... but I guess using mach4.defs isn't too bad
    <antrik> braunr: as for reserved fields, I guess that is somewhat better
      than flavors; but I can't say I exactly like the idea either...
    <braunr> antrik: there is room in mach4 ;p


## IRC, freenode, #hurd, 2012-07-23

    <tschwinge> I'm not sure yet whether I'm happy with adding the RPC to
      mach4.defs.
    <braunr> that's the only question yes
    <braunr> (well, no, not only)
    <braunr> as i know have a better view of what's involved, it may make sense
      to create a gnumach.defs file
    <braunr> tschwinge: all right i'll create a gnumach.defs file
    <tschwinge> braunr: Well, if there is general agreement that this is the
      way to go.
    <tschwinge> braunr: In that case, I guess there's no point in being more
      fine-grained -- gnumach-vm.defs or similar -- that'd probably be
      over-engineering.  If the glibc bits for libmachuser are not
      straight-forward, I can help with that of course.
    <braunr> ok


## IRC, freenode, #hurd, 2012-07-27

    <braunr> tschwinge: i've pushed a patch on the gnumach page_cache branch
      that adds a gnumach.defs interface
    <braunr> tschwinge: if you think it's ok, i'll rewrite a formal changelog
      so it can be applied


## IRC, freenode, #hurd, 2012-09-30

    <braunr> youpi: hey, didn't see you merged the page cache stats branch :)


## IRC, freenode, #hurd, 2013-01-12

    <braunr> youpi: the hurd master-vm_cache_stats branch (which makes vmstat
      displays some vm cache properties) is ready to be pulled

[[open_issues/mach_tasks_memory_usage]].

    <braunr> tschwinge: i've updated the procfs server on darnassus, you can
      now see the amount of physical memory used by the vm cache with top/htop
      (not vmstat yet)


### IRC, freenode, #hurd, 2013-01-13

    <youpi> braunr: I'm not sure to understand what I'm supposed to do with the
      page cache statistics branch
    <braunr> youpi: apply it ?
    <youpi> can't you already do that?
    <braunr> well, i don't consider myself a maintainer
    <youpi> then submit to the list for review
    <braunr> hm ok
    <braunr> youpi: ok, next time, i'll commit such changes directly


# Subsystems

## IRC, freenode, #hurd, 2013-09-03

    <teythoon> anything I need to be aware of if I want to add a new subsystem?
    <teythoon> is there a convention for choosing the subsystem id?
    <braunr> a subsystem takes 200 IDs
    <braunr> grep other subsystems in mach and the hurd to avoid collisions of
      course
    <teythoon> yes
    <teythoon> i know that ;)
    <braunr> :)
    <teythoon> i've noticed the _notify subsystems being x+500, should I follow
      that?
    <pinotree> 100 for rpc + 100 for their replies?
    <braunr> teythoon: yes
    <braunr> pinotree: yes
    <teythoon> ok
    <teythoon> we should really work on mig...
    <braunr> ... :)
