## <a name="Discussions_about_the_http_hurd_"> </a> Discussions about the <http://hurd.gnufans.org> front page

**_Old discussions:_** [[WIKIHOMEURLMainTOPICrev114]]

This topic is for discussion of the HTML page as the "home" page for the Hurd Wiki.

-- [[Main/GrantBow]] - 07 Nov 2002

Isn't it good to have search box in <http://hurd.gnufans.org/> ?

-- [[Main/OgnyanKulev]] - 17 Mar 2003

That's a good idea. In TWiki terms, which kind of search would you recommend? I know that I frequently do a keyword search on a particular web, but that's not good for the front page. A full text search of all webs all items? Hmmm, I wonder what performance is required for that kind of search. I'll check it now.

-- [[Main/GrantBow]] - 17 Mar 2003

TWiki suggests using descriptive topic names and we do so. Topic names can be considered as kind of "keywords" or "short titles" so I think the best would be if this search box searches through all topic names in all webs. BTW [Jakob Nielsen](http://useit.com/) states that many many users find what they want by searching, not by browsing. Of course, the truth can be found by looking at the web logs :-)

-- [[Main/OgnyanKulev]] - 18 Mar 2003

In addition to the [[WebChanges]] topics, did you know we are running <http://hurd.gnufans.org/webalizer/> as well? :-)

-- [[Main/GrantBow]] - 18 Mar 2003

Ah, yes, I forgot about it. And I've noticed that it is linked only from [[TWiki/SiteUsageStatistics]], [[Hurd/WebStatistics]] and [[Main/TWikiColophon]]. Obviously the first is the canonical "parent" through which the webalizer page should be found. But "more" - "ref-by" - "find topics in all public webs that link to [[SiteUsageStatistics]]" gives no pages!

Looking at webalizer logs it seems nobody is using the search capability :-/ It's interesting that I use it often to quickly jump to a page that I know but others mostly browse :-)

-- [[Main/OgnyanKulev]] - 18 Mar 2003

Don't put too much trust into the WebAlizer. I cannot recall if I only put <code>**/bin/view/\***</code> or if it actually displays **_all_** the requested pages.

I pretty much view the Wiki as a dictionary/encyclopedia. Therefore I almost always use the search facility to find what I look for - similar to what I do when surfing the net.

A search facility on the front page is a great idea. Let's worry about resource utilization when we get there and start with a **_big bad search_**! :-)

Grant, the top-right search/go box in the Wiki should have a link to [[WebSearch]], you're so right. I'll put it in asap. I also found a bug related to preview/back in IE (See [[TWiki/GnuSkinTodo]]).

-- [[Main/JoachimNilsson]] - 19 Mar 2003

Anyone know why the following two pages aren't combined into one page?

<http://hurd.gnufans.org/bin/view/Main/HurdGnuFansOrg><br /><http://hurd.gnufans.org/bin/view/Main/WebHome>

-- [[Main/GregBuchholz]] - 29 Sep 2003

It's because [[HurdGnuFansOrg]] is the "template" (for lack of better word) that is used to generate the <http://hurd.gnufans.org> front page which is pure HTML and not a wiki page. We have a neat Python script that recreates the HTML front page each time it is accessed and the template wiki page is updated.

The [[WebHome]] is only the default page for the Main web. The main web holds user's home pages, groups and other similar type of information. In all fairness, the name should be Home web, but this terminology has been up for some debate at <http://twiki.org>.

The reason we did not pick the [[Hurd/WebHome]] or [[Main/WebHome]] as the front page for the site is that neither summarizes the wiki, or the topic at large, as a whole.

-- [[Main/JoachimNilsson]] - 30 Sep 2003
