## <a name="Welcome_to_the_Hurd_Wiki"> Welcome to the Hurd Wiki </a>

[[Main/WebHome]] is a web based collaboration for collecting useful information about [the GNU Hurd](http://hurd.gnu.org). It was started 11th May 2002 and is a pure volonteer effort. Feel free to join in, but please respect the guidelines in the %TWIKIWEB%.GoodStyle rules. [[TWiki/TWikiRegistration]] today and get a free GNU system from your local FTP mirror as a bonus! :cool:

A [WikiWikiWeb](http://www.c2.com/cgi/wiki?WelcomeVisitors), or simply Wiki, is _"a collaborative forum where people can share ideas and record any consensus reached on difficult issues, along with rebuttal. It changes as people come and go, as experience develops, and as opinions change."_ Our Wiki focuses on providing the most current information possible regarding the status and development of the Hurd.

The WebMenu on the left side holds references to "topics" and "webs" available in this [TWiki](http://twiki.org). Webs are a kind of logical partitioning of content into sections. You could call them "Chapters" in a book. Each page in a web is called a topic.

If you are not familiar with the %WIKITOOLNAME% collaboration tool, please visit %TWIKIWEB%.WelcomeGuest in the %WIKITOOLNAME%.%TWIKIWEB% web first.

**%WIKITOOLNAME%.%WEB% Web:**

* ** %WIKIUSERSTOPIC%: ** List of users of this %WIKITOOLNAME% web.
* [[TWikiGroups]]: List of groups.

<form action="%SCRIPTURLPATH%/search%SCRIPTSUFFIX%/%WEB%/">
  <ul>
    <li><span style="background:"><font color="">Web Search</font></span><a href="http://LOCATION/WebSearch">?</a>: Full text search of the %WIKITOOLNAME%.%WEB% web. </li>
    <li><input name="search" size="32" type="text" /> <input type="submit" value="Search" />    (More options in <span style="background:"><font color="">Web Search</font></span><a href="http://LOCATION/WebSearch">?</a>) </li>
    <li><span style="background:"><font color="">Web Changes</font></span><a href="http://LOCATION/WebChanges">?</a>: Find out recent modifications to the %WIKITOOLNAME%.%WEB% web. </li>
    <li><span style="background:"><font color="">Web Index</font></span><a href="http://LOCATION/WebIndex">?</a>: Display all %WIKITOOLNAME%.%WEB% topics in alphabetical order. See also the faster <span style="background:"><font color="">Web Topic List</font></span><a href="http://LOCATION/WebTopicList">?</a></li>
    <li> %NOTIFYTOPIC%: Subscribe to be automatically notified when something changes in the %WIKITOOLNAME%.%WEB% web. </li>
    <li> %STATISTICSTOPIC%: View access statistics of the %WIKITOOLNAME%.%WEB% web. </li>
    <li> %WEBPREFSTOPIC%: Preferences of the %WIKITOOLNAME%.%WEB% web. </li>
  </ul>
</form>

**%WIKITOOLNAME%.%TWIKIWEB% Web:**

* ** %TWIKIWEB%.WelcomeGuest: ** Look here first to get you rolling on %WIKITOOLNAME%.
* %TWIKIWEB%.TWikiSite: Explains what a %WIKITOOLNAME% site is.
* %TWIKIWEB%.TWikiRegistration: Create your account in order to edit topics.
* %TWIKIWEB%.ChangePassword: Change your account password.
* %TWIKIWEB%.ResetPassword: Forgot your password?
* Documentation:
  * %TWIKIWEB%.TWikiFAQ has a list of frequently asked questions.
  * %TWIKIWEB%.TWikiDocumentation is the implementation documentation of TWiki.
  * %TWIKIWEB%.TWikiHistory shows TWiki's implementation history.
* How to edit text:
  * %TWIKIWEB%.GoodStyle: Things to consider when changing text.
  * %TWIKIWEB%.TextFormattingRules: Easy to learn rules for editing text.
  * %TWIKIWEB%.TextFormattingFAQ: Answers to frequently asked questions about text formatting.
* %TWIKIWEB%.%WIKIPREFSTOPIC%: %WIKITOOLNAME% site-level preferences

%INCLUDE\{"%TWIKIWEB%.TWikiWebsTable"\}%

<div>
  <center> Again, welcome to the world of Free Software and the GNU Operating System, the Hurd. <p><em>Remember, no question is too stupid and no problem too small -- We've all been beginners</em></p>
  </center>
</div>
