I just added <http://www.osafoundation.org> to my <http://www.grantbow.com/groupware.html> page. Fascinating stuff.

I emailed their [TWiki](http://wiki.osafoundation.org) webmaster because they didn't set up their registration correctly to allow me to enter or give me my password when I registered. We could teach them a thing or two perhaps... Until I get my username straightened out over there I'll make notes on this page.

VERY noticable omissions from their pages include some of the set of tools that many Free Software &amp; Open Source folks use for these various functions. Ideally little list now is:

<dl>
  <dt> Email</dt>
  <dd><strong>mutt</strong>, <strong>procmail</strong>, spamassassin (I'm testing crm114 too), metamail (mailcap) </dd>
  <dt> Contacts</dt>
  <dd> lbdb, LDAP, PAM </dd>
  <dt> Time</dt>
  <dd> jpilot, malsync </dd>
  <dt> Notes</dt>
  <dd> Emacs or <strong>vim</strong></dd>
  <dt> Web</dt>
  <dd> firefox (mime.types with mozex, mozplugger), wget, w3m, ncftp, <strong>TWiki</strong>, Apache, monit </dd>
  <dt> IM</dt>
  <dd><strong>irssi</strong> (many scripts), pisg, gaim </dd>
  <dt> Interface/Infrastructure</dt>
  <dd><strong>screen</strong>, gpm/imwheel </dd>
</dl>

Bookmark manager - I don't have anything really good at the moment, just the Firefox features and whatever URLs I copy and paste into a text file when firing up mozilla-firefox isn't feasable either because it's too slow on this machine or because I'm on a remote machine. This might be a tremendous win in itself if positioned and integrated well with the other parts. The similarities to the OHS Hyperscope are apparent with some understand of Doug's vision (very hard to obtain). I wonder how much exposure he's had to Doug's <http://www.bootstrap.org> ideas.

-- [[Main/GrantBow]] - 06 Mar 2004

After some research, the state of adoption of clients to use iCal date files and others to implement servers does not feel encouraging. Perhaps this is because time itself is a dimension. X, Y and Z are much more manageable than time which never stops. The lack of time control inherent along with the important value of changes (very high time-value decay) makes for difficulties. Email and IM are different implementations of message passing, like writing a letter, the printing of a book, a newspaper or notes in class. But if we abstract one more level to collection information ABOUT time events it becomes more difficult.

Because of the high decay, humans have come up with their own ways of dealing with time management. There are no standard forms or time notations world wide. Paper organizers such as daytimer, palm pilots, paper todo lists, they are all aimed at having the right information available when and **where** people need it. Time management perhaps _assumes_ that you can manage the first three dimensions well enough to have the tools available to get the information you need. People's memory quality, time management requirements &amp; needs also vary greatly even within a single day, Perhaps out of necessity, time tools are personalized and customized to the interface needs of the individual.

The "edge" of the networks have provided great value for those that don't much around with servers too much - email is simple as are http and IM. [[WebDAV]] (distributed authoring and versioning) promises to help with web "transparency." The old idea from Xanadu is to take the entire stream of data, store it and only show pointers to the data that is resulted, but the necessary storage underneath is tremendous and the complexity increases quickly. Without an integrated system it falls apart. Our current dealing with filesystems is the result of not being able to easily version content. A counter-example (and closed environment during an editing session) is a word processor's editing/highlilghting capability. Because the environment is closed enough all the data can be captured real-time.

What's my point? Perhaps architecturally ical/webdav servers aren't the way to go, we just need to enhance clients better. And yet the need exists for integration and a coherent human view of computer data.

In the [Roadmap: IV Design Principles](http://www.osafoundation.org/Chandler-Product_Roadmap.htm) section it gives 4 reasons driving goals. However in the item on power users it talks about clicking - one of the least powerful methods of input available to a user of a computer. Addressability becomes critical before sorting can be fully considered. A yardstick to use for how well one is doing is using the tools yourself. I loving seeing the TWiki on their site. I also see that Canoga's target's of "info-centric individuals and decentralized groups" are the ones who are most invested in their current tool sets **because** they are info-centric, especially in areas of "email, small workgroup calendaring, contacts and tasks."

Poking holes from the outside and feeling the way I do at the moment, I see the [faq](http://www.osafoundation.org/Chandler-Product_FAQ.htm) question 1 and can see the email, IM, contact, and note taking. The task management feels more difficult and I know the integrated calendar is majorly tough. Running through my mind as I read more is "garbage in, garbage out."

Uh oh, they used the GPL. The GPL is viral if they read it!!!

-- [[Main/GrantBow]] - 06 Mar 2004

Spent some time refining colors and configs for mutt, irssi &amp; screen today. I'm liking the result. In the overall scheme, I'm very unhappy with solutions calendaring/time. With extensions and work the Firefox bookmark feature can probably fill many needs. IRC seems ideal for access and searching via some kind of bot since it's a pure &amp; simple message, though not much context.

-- [[Main/GrantBow]] - 07 Mar 2004
