**%WIKITOOLNAME%.%WEB% Web:**

* ** %WIKIUSERSTOPIC%: ** List of users of this %WIKITOOLNAME% web.
* [[TWikiGroups]]: List of groups.

<form action="%SCRIPTURLPATH%/search%SCRIPTSUFFIX%/%WEB%/">
  <ul>
    <li><span style="background:"><font color="">Web Search</font></span><a href="http://LOCATION/WebSearch">?</a>: Full text search of the %WIKITOOLNAME%.%WEB% web. </li>
    <li><input name="search" size="32" type="text" /> <input type="submit" value="Search" />    (More options in <span style="background:"><font color="">Web Search</font></span><a href="http://LOCATION/WebSearch">?</a>) </li>
    <li><span style="background:"><font color="">Web Changes</font></span><a href="http://LOCATION/WebChanges">?</a>: Find out recent modifications to the %WIKITOOLNAME%.%WEB% web. </li>
    <li><span style="background:"><font color="">Web Index</font></span><a href="http://LOCATION/WebIndex">?</a>: Display all %WIKITOOLNAME%.%WEB% topics in alphabetical order. See also the faster <span style="background:"><font color="">Web Topic List</font></span><a href="http://LOCATION/WebTopicList">?</a></li>
    <li> %NOTIFYTOPIC%: Subscribe to be automatically notified when something changes in the %WIKITOOLNAME%.%WEB% web. </li>
    <li> %STATISTICSTOPIC%: View access statistics of the %WIKITOOLNAME%.%WEB% web. </li>
    <li> %WEBPREFSTOPIC%: Preferences of the %WIKITOOLNAME%.%WEB% web. </li>
  </ul>
</form>

**%WIKITOOLNAME%.%TWIKIWEB% Web:**

* ** %TWIKIWEB%.WelcomeGuest: ** Look here first to get you rolling on %WIKITOOLNAME%.
* %TWIKIWEB%.TWikiSite: Explains what a %WIKITOOLNAME% site is.
* %TWIKIWEB%.TWikiRegistration: Create your account in order to edit topics.
* %TWIKIWEB%.ChangePassword: Change your account password.
* %TWIKIWEB%.ResetPassword: Forgot your password?
* Documentation:
  * %TWIKIWEB%.TWikiFAQ has a list of frequently asked questions.
  * %TWIKIWEB%.TWikiDocumentation is the implementation documentation of TWiki.
  * %TWIKIWEB%.TWikiHistory shows TWiki's implementation history.
* How to edit text:
  * %TWIKIWEB%.GoodStyle: Things to consider when changing text.
  * %TWIKIWEB%.TextFormattingRules: Easy to learn rules for editing text.
  * %TWIKIWEB%.TextFormattingFAQ: Answers to frequently asked questions about text formatting.
* %TWIKIWEB%.%WIKIPREFSTOPIC%: %WIKITOOLNAME% site-level preferences

%INCLUDE\{"%TWIKIWEB%.TWikiWebsTable"\}%
