**%WIKITOOLNAME%.%WEB% Web Preferences**

The following settings are **_web preferences_** of the %WIKITOOLNAME%.%WEB% web. These preferences overwrite the **_site-level preferences_** in %MAINWEB%.%WIKIPREFSTOPIC%, and can be overwritten by **_user preferences_** (your personal topic, i.e. %MAINWEB%.PeterThoeny in the %WIKITOOLNAME%.%MAINWEB% web)

**_Preferences:_**

* List of topics of the %WIKITOOLNAME%.%WEB% web:
  * Set WEBTOPICLIST = %WEB% . \{ [Home](%HOMETOPIC%) | [Welcome](WelcomeGuest) | [Users](%WIKIUSERSTOPIC%) | [Changes](%SCRIPTURLPATH%/changes%SCRIPTSUFFIX%/%WEB%) | [Index](%SCRIPTURLPATH%/search%SCRIPTSUFFIX%/%WEB%/?scope=topic&regex=on&search=.*) | [Search](WebSearch) | Go <input name="topic" size="16" type="text" />
 \}

* Web specific background color:
  * Set WEBBGCOLOR = #FFFFC0

**_Notes:_**

* A preference is defined as: <br />`6 spaces * Set NAME = value`<br /> Example:
  * Set WEBBGCOLOR = #FFFFC0
* Preferences are used as %MAINWEB%.TWikiVariables by enclosing the name in percent signs. Example:
  * When you write variable <code>%WEBBGCOLOR%</code> , it gets expanded to `%WEBBGCOLOR%` .
* The sequential order of the preference settings is significant. Define preferences that use other preferences first, i.e. set <code>WEBCOPYRIGHT</code> before <code>WIKIWEBMASTER</code> since <code>%WEBCOPYRIGHT%</code> uses the <code>%WIKIWEBMASTER%</code> variable.
* You can introduce new preferences variables and use them in your topics and templates. There is no need to change the %WIKITOOLNAME% engine (Perl scripts).

**_Related Topics:_**

* %MAINWEB%.%WIKIPREFSTOPIC% has site-level preferences.
* %MAINWEB%.%WIKIUSERSTOPIC% has a list of user topics. User topics can have optional user preferences.
* %MAINWEB%.TWikiVariables has a list of common <code>%VARIABLES%</code> .
