[[!meta copyright="Copyright © 2010, 2013 Free Software Foundation, Inc."]]

[[!meta license="""[[!toggle id="license" text="GFDL 1.2+"]][[!toggleable
id="license" text="Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this
document under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.2 or
any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no Invariant
Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.  A copy of the license
is included in the section entitled [[GNU Free Documentation
License|/fdl]]."]]"""]]

[[!tag open_issue_hurd]]

IRC, #hurd, 2010-10-05

    <sdschulze> antrik: Erlang-style parallelism might actually be interesting
      for Hurd translators.
    <sdschulze> There are certain similarities between Erlang's message boxes
      and Mach ports.
    <sdschulze> The problem is that all languages that implement the Erlang
      actor model are VM-based.
    <antrik> sdschulze: I guess that's because most systems don't offer this
      kind of message passing functionality out of the box... perhaps on Hurd
      it would be possible to implement an Erlang-like language natively?
    <sdschulze> That would be quite attractive -- having the same API for
      in-process parallelism and IPC.
    <sdschulze> But I don't see why Erlang needs a VM...  It could also be
      implemented in a library.
    [...]
    <sdschulze> BTW, Scala doesn't require a VM by design.  Its Erlang
      implementation is a binary-compatible abstraction to Java.
    [...]
    <sdschulze> My point was that Erlang employs some ideas that might be
      usable in the Hurd libraries.
    <sdschulze> concerning multithreading stuff
    <sdschulze> Unfortunately, it will not contribute to readability if done in
      C.
    <antrik> perhaps it's worth a look :-)
    <sdschulze> Actually, a Mach port is pretty close to an Erlang actor.
    <sdschulze> Currently, your I/O callbacks have to block when they're
      waiting for something.
    <sdschulze> What they should do is save the Mach port and respond as soon
      as they can.
    <sdschulze> So there should be a return status for "call me later, when I
      tell you to" in the callbacks.
    <sdschulze> Then the translator associates the Mach port with the summary
      of the request in some data structure.
    <sdschulze> As soon as the data is there, it tells the callback function to
      appear again and fulfills the request.
    <sdschulze> That's -- very roughly -- my idea.
    <sdschulze> Actually, this eliminates the need for multithreading
      completely.
    <antrik> sdschulze: not sure whether you are talking about RPC level or
      libc level here...
    <sdschulze> It should be transparent to libc.
    <sdschulze> If the client does a read() that cannot be answered immediatly,
      it blocks.
    <sdschulze> The difference is that there is no corresponding blocking
      thread in the translator.
    <antrik> ah, so you are talking about the server side only
    <sdschulze> yes
    <antrik> you mean the callback functions provided by the translator
      implementation should return ASAP, and then the dispatcher would call
      them again somehow
    <sdschulze> allowing the server to be single-threaded, if desired
    <sdschulze> exactly
    <sdschulze> like: call_again (mach_port);
    <antrik> but if the functions give up control, how does the dispatcher know
      when they are ready to be activated again? or does it just poll?
    <sdschulze> The translator knows this.
    <sdschulze> hm...
    <antrik> well, we are talking about the internal design of the translator,
      right?
    <antrik> I'm not saying it's impossible... but it's a bit tricky
    <antrik> essentially, the callbacks would have to tell the dispatcher,
      "call me again when there is an incoming message on this port"
    <sdschulze> Say we have a filesystem translator.
    <antrik> (or rather, it probably should actually call a *different*
      callback when this happens)
    <sdschulze> The client does a "read(...)".
    <sdschulze> => A callback is called in the translator.
    <antrik> let's call it disfs_S_io_read() ;-)
    <antrik> err... diskfs
    <sdschulze> The callback returns: SPECIAL_CALL_ME_LATER.
    <sdschulze> yes, exactly that :)
    <sdschulze> But before, it saves the position to be read in its internal
      data structure.
    <sdschulze> (a sorted tree, whatever)
    <sdschulze> The main loop steps through the data structure, doing a read()
      on the underlying translator (might be the disk partition).
    <sdschulze> "Ah, gotcha, this is what the client with Mach port number 1234
      wanted!  Call his callback again!"
    <sdschulze> Then we're back in diskfs_S_io_read() and supply the data.
    <antrik> so you want to move part of the handling into the main loop? while
      I'm not fundamentally opposed to that, I'm not sure whether the
      dispatcher/callback approach used by MIG makes much sense at all in this
      case...
    <antrik> my point is that this probably can be generalised. blocking
      operations (I/O or other) usually wait for a reply message on a port --
      in this case the port for the underlying store
    <antrik> so the main loop would just need to wait for a reply message on
      the port, without really knowing what it means
    <sdschulze> on what port?
    <antrik> so disfs_S_io_read() would send a request message to the store;
      then it would return to the dispatcher, informing it to call
      diskfs_S_io_read_finish() or something like that when there is a message
      on the reply port
    <antrik> main loop would add the reply port to the listening port bucket
    <antrik> and as soon as the store provides the reply message, the
      dispatcher would then call diskfs_S_io_read_finish() with the reply
      message
    <sdschulze> yes
    <antrik> this might actually be doable without changes to MIG, and with
      fairly small changes to libports... though libdiskfs etc. would probably
      need major rewrites
    <sdschulze> What made me think about it is that Mach port communication
      doesn't block per se.
    <antrik> all this is however ignoring the problem I mentioned yesterdays:
      we need to handle page faults as well...
    <sdschulze> It's MIG and POSIX that block.
    <sdschulze> What about page faults?
    <antrik> when the translator has some data mapped, instead of doing
      explicit I/O, blocking can occur on normal memory access
    <sdschulze> antrik: Well, I've only been talking about the server side so
      far.
    <antrik> sdschulze: this *is* the server side
    <antrik> sdschulze: a filesystem translator can map the underlying store
      for example
    <antrik> (in fact that's what the ext2 translator does... which is why we
      had this 2G partition limit)
    <sdschulze> antrik: Ah, OK, so in other words, there are requests that it
      can answer immediatly and others that it can't?
    <antrik> that's not the issue. the issue is the the ext2 translator doesn't
      issue explicit blocking io_read() operations on the underlying
      store. instead, it just copies some of it's own address space from or to
      the client; and if the page is not in physical memory, blocking occurs
      during the copy
    <antrik> so essentially we would need a way to return control to the
      dispatcher when a page fault occurs
    <sdschulze> antrik: Ah, so MIG will find the translator unresponsive?  (and
      then do what?)
    <antrik> sdschulze: again, this is not really a MIG thing. the main loop is
      *not* in MIG -- it's provided by the tranlator, usually through libports
    <sdschulze> OK, but as Mach IPC is asynchronous, a temporarily unresponsive
      translator won't cause any severe harm?
    <sdschulze> antrik: "Easy" solution: use a defined number of worker
      threads.
    <antrik> sdschulze: well, for most translators it doesn't do any harm if
      they block. but if we want to accept that, there is no point in doing
      this continuation stuff at all -- we could just use a single-threaded
      implementation :-)

[[continuation]].

    <sdschulze> Hard solution: do use explicit I/O and invent a
      read_no_pagefault() call.
    <antrik> not sure what you mean exactly. what I would consider is something
      like an exception handler around the copy code
    <antrik> so if an exception occurs during the copy, control is returned to
      the dispatcher; and once the pager informs us that the memory is
      available, the copy is restarted. but this is not exacly simple...
    <sdschulze> antrik: Ah, right.  If the read() blocks, you haven't gained
      anything over blocking callbacks.
    * sdschulze adopted an ML coding style for his C coding...
    <sdschulze> antrik: Regarding it on the Mach level, all you want to do is
      some communication on some ports.
    <sdschulze> antrik: Only Unix's blocking I/O makes you want to use threads.
    <sdschulze> Unless you have a multicore CPU, there's no good reason why you
      would *ever* want multithreading.
    <sdschulze> (except poor software design)
    <sdschulze> antrik: Is there a reason why not to use io_read?
    <antrik> sdschulze: I totally agree about multithreading...
    <antrik> as for not using io_read(): some things are easier and/or more
      efficient with mapping
    <antrik> the Mach VM is really the most central part of Mach, and it's
      greatest innovation...
    <sdschulze> antrik: If you used explicit I/O, it would at least shift the
      problem somewhere else...
    <antrik> sure... but that's a workaround, not a solution
    <sdschulze> I'm not sure how to deal with page faults then -- I know too
      little about the Hurd's internal design.
    <sdschulze> Non-blocking io_read only works if we address the client side,
      too, BTW.
    <sdschulze> which would be quite ugly in C IMHO
    <sdschulze> announce_read (what, to, read, when_ready_callback);
    <antrik> sdschulze: POSIX knows non-blocking I/O
    <antrik> never checked how it works though
    <sdschulze> Yes, but I doubt it does what we want.
    <antrik> anyways, it's not too hard to do non-blocking io_read(). the
      problem is that then you have to use MIG stubs directly, not the libc
      function
    <sdschulze> And you somehow need to get the answer.
    <sdschulze> resp. get to know when it's ready
    <antrik> the Hurd actually comes with a io_request.defs and io_reply.defs
      by default. you just need to use them.
    <sdschulze> oh, ok
    <antrik> (instead of the usual io.defs, which does a blocking send/receive
      in one step)
    <sdschulze> I'd be interested how this works in Linux...
    <antrik> what exactly?
    <sdschulze> simultaneous requests on one FS
    <antrik> ah, you mean the internal threading model of Linux? no idea
    <sdschulze> if it uses threading at all
    <antrik> youpi probably knows... and some others might as well
    <sdschulze> Callbacks are still ugly...
