[[!meta copyright="Copyright © 2012, 2013 Free Software Foundation, Inc."]]

[[!meta license="""[[!toggle id="license" text="GFDL 1.2+"]][[!toggleable
id="license" text="Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this
document under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.2 or
any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no Invariant
Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.  A copy of the license
is included in the section entitled [[GNU Free Documentation
License|/fdl]]."]]"""]]

[[!tag open_issue_documentation]]

This is not at all specific to ext2fs, so should be integrated elsewhere.


# IRC, freenode, #hurd, 2012-04-22

    <Tekk_> is there any particular reason ext2fs takes so much memory?
    <Tekk_> it beats everything on my system hands down at 100 MB
    <youpi> ext2fs contains the page cache
    <youpi> so it's no wonder it takes memory
    <youpi> it's all the mapped files
    <Tekk_> any way I can cut down on that?
    <Tekk_> my system only has 512 meg :/
    <youpi> gnumach is supposed to automatically cut it down as needed
    <youpi> what is the actual symptom that you see?
    <Tekk_> youpi: 360 MB of memory usage when I'm doing nothing
    <Tekk_> oh, is it just intelligent enough to cut down when I'm using more
      memory?
    <youpi> Tekk_: yes
    <Tekk_> awesome. I was worried :)

Actually, ext2fs doesn't contain its page cache (the virtual and physical
memory counters do not take the cache size into account). But it must allocate
descriptors for the cached content.
