[[!meta copyright="Copyright © 2009, 2010 Free Software Foundation, Inc."]]

[[!meta license="""[[!toggle id="license" text="GFDL 1.2+"]][[!toggleable
id="license" text="Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this
document under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.2 or
any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no Invariant
Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.  A copy of the license
is included in the section entitled [[GNU Free Documentation
License|/fdl]]."]]"""]]

[[!meta date="2010-02-02 00:25 UTC"]]

A month of the Hurd: *Arch Hurd*, *FOSDEM preparations* and a *thesis on mobile Hurd objects*. 
[[!if test="included()" then="""[[!toggle id=full_news
text="Details."]][[!toggleable id=full_news text="[[!paste id=full_news]]"]]"""
else="[[!paste id=full_news]]"]]

[[!cut id="full_news" text="""

> This month, we saw the first booting version of an [[hurd/running/Arch Hurd]]
> system, which seconds the [[Debian GNU/Hurd|hurd/running/debian]]
> distribution that already provides two third of the Debian software archive
> compiled for GNU/Hurd.

> Nine Hurd developers will [[meet at FOSDEM
> 2010|community/meetings/fosdem_2010]] on February 6th and 7th in Bruxelles,
> Belgium.  On Sunday, Olaf will be giving two presentations in the Alt-OS
> Developer Room: [*Why is Anyone Still Working on the GNU
> Hurd?*](http://fosdem.org/2010/schedule/events/altos_hurd) (10:30), and
> [*Porting KGI graphics drivers from Linux to GNU
> Hurd*](http://fosdem.org/2010/schedule/events/altos_kgi_hurd) (13:00).  The
> day before, on Saturday, Bas will be giving a [talk about *Iris*, his new
> kernel](http://fosdem.org/2010/schedule/events/emb_iris) (18:00, Embedded
> Developer Room).

> Carl Fredrik Hammar 
> [finished and presented](http://lists.gnu.org/archive/html/bug-hurd/2010-01/msg00078.html) 
> his thesis 
> [*Generalizing mobility for the Hurd*](http://users.student.lth.se/cs07fh9/2009-hammar-hurd-mobility.pdf)
> and passed with distinction.  Congratulations!  Its abstract reads:  

> > The GNU Hurd features mobile objects
> > in its implementation of filesystem backing stores.
> > This thesis investigates the
> > limitations and security concerns
> > these objects present,
> > and how they can be overcome.
> > This is done in preparation for new applications
> > that feature mobile code and mobile objects.
> > In addition,
> > one such application is studied and implemented,
> > in which mobile code is used to make
> > the `ioctl` system call more extensible.

> So, when are *YOU* going to do a thesis, or another project on a
> GNU/Hurd-related topic?  [[Contact_us]] if you are interested!

"""]]
