[[!meta copyright="Copyright © 2010 Free Software Foundation, Inc."]]

[[!meta license="""[[!toggle id="license" text="GFDL 1.2+"]][[!toggleable
id="license" text="Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this
document under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.2 or
any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no Invariant
Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.  A copy of the license
is included in the section entitled [[GNU Free Documentation
License|/fdl]]."]]"""]]

<!-- Date when the news item is (to be) pulished (important for RSS feeds).
Will be set by tschwinge when publishing.
[[!meta date="YYYY-MM-DD HH:MM UTC"]]
-->

A month of the Hurd: *thread storms*, *dde linux26*, *new live CD* and *IRC meeting schedule*. 
[[!if test="included()" then="""[[!toggle id=full_news
text="Details."]][[!toggleable id=full_news text="[[!paste id=full_news]]"]]"""
else="[[!paste id=full_news]]"]]

[[!cut id="full_news" text="""

> This month Zheng Da 
> [reported](http://lists.gnu.org/archive/html/bug-hurd/2010-05/msg00037.html)
> on the state of porting DDE linux26 to the Hurd, 
> which can improve the GNU Hurd Hardware support a lot: 

>> I tested pcnet32, ne2k-pci, rtl8139, e1000. pcnet32 works in
>> both VMWare and qemu. Only qemu emulates ne2k-pci and rtl8139 cards and both DDE
>> drivers work well in qemu. — [[Zheng_Da|user/zhengda]]

> Also Sergio Lopez 
> [added some patches](http://lists.gnu.org/archive/html/bug-hurd/2010-05/msg00106.html) 
> to prevent thread storms when synchronizing large pagers in ext2fs. They should improve performance for high throughput situations. 

> Additionally Justus Winter created a [live CD](http://lists.gnu.org/archive/html/bug-hurd/2010-05/msg00033.html) 
> with an installation wizard in the spirit of the OpenBSD installer. 
> He needs testers to improve it. 

> And the [scheduled IRC meetings for Google Summer of code](http://lists.gnu.org/archive/html/bug-hurd/2010-05/msg00148.html) are continuing on Mondays and Thursdays, 10:30 UTC. If you want to catch up on them, you can have a look at the [channel logs](). 

> <small>*PS: As the amount of new developments on the Hurd has increased quite a bit since the start of the ‘Month of the Hurd’, these news are only a selection of the items you can already test yourself. There’s more in our [[mailing_lists]]. The rough criterium for the Month of the Hurd is “can you already test it and can I say why it is great for the Hurd at large?” — [[Arne_Babenhauserheide|community/weblogs/ArneBab]]*</small>

"""]]
