[[!meta copyright="Copyright © 2009 Free Software Foundation, Inc."]]

[[!meta license="""[[!toggle id="license" text="GFDL 1.2+"]][[!toggleable
id="license" text="Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this
document under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.2 or
any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no Invariant
Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.  A copy of the license
is included in the section entitled [[GNU Free Documentation
License|/fdl]]."]]"""]]

[[!meta date="2010-01-31 00:00 UTC"]]

[[!meta updated="2010-01-31 00:00 UTC"]]

A month of the Hurd: *first DDE driver*, *libpciaccess upstream*, *Fosdem results* and *GSoC meetings again*. 
[[!if test="included()" then="""[[!toggle id=full_news
text="Details."]][[!toggleable id=full_news text="[[!paste id=full_news]]"]]"""
else="[[!paste id=full_news]]"]]

[[!cut id="full_news" text="""

> This month saw the first running and testable 
> [[DDE_driver_by_Zheng_Da|user/zhengda]], 
> with which he begins to reap the benefits of porting DDE to Hurd, 
> since [[DDE|dde]] allows to use current Linux drivers for Mach and L4. 

> Also Samuel Thibault 
> [pushed libpciaccess to Xorg](http://lists.freedesktop.org/archives/xorg/2010-January/048801.html) 
> which adds support in the Xserver (x86) 
> “for OSes that do not have a PCI interface, 
> tinkering with I/O ports, and makes use of it on GNU/Hurd.”

> Additionally we saw the talks on the Hurd in the Alt-OS devroom at 
> Fosdem: [Why is Anyone Still Working on the GNU Hurd?](http://fosdem.org/2010/schedule/events/altos_hurd) and [Porting KGI graphics drivers from Linux to GNU Hurd](http://fosdem.org/2010/schedule/events/altos_kgi_hurd). 

> In [Mikels words](http://lists.gnu.org/archive/html/bug-hurd/2010-03/msg00014.html): 

> > The room was full and people were "standing-up" for the talk. Some people
> > couldn't even enter the room (+20?).
> > 
> > Antrik made a good job. Was nice for the crowd to see Hurd running X,
> > slow but working.
> > 
> > The unique problem might have been the short time available. The machine
> > needed to be fsck-ed losing some time, which could have been be used at the end
> > for Q&A which was quite interesting.

> Sadly we couldn't yet upload notes from the talks - 
> as soon as these are availble, you should get notice here.
> Also they should be linked on the Fosdem pages we linked to above.

> And it is time for the [[Google_Summer_of_Code|community/gsoc]] again, so 
> [we started our weekly GSoC IRC meetings](http://lists.gnu.org/archive/html/bug-hurd/2010-02/msg00040.html) in which we coordinate the GSoC projects. 
> [[2008|community/gsoc/2008]] the GNU Hurd had 5 successful projects, 
> 2009 saw [[another_one|user/scolobb]], 
> and we hope to make it 5 projects again this year. 
> The last few years brought 
> [libchannel](http://code.google.com/soc/2007/gnu/appinfo.html?csaid=44FB3FD69C665A08), 
> **lisp bindings**, **dtrace**, [[nsmux|hurd/translator/nsmux]], 
> **network virtualization** (which led to the DDE drivers), **procfs** 
> and [[unionmount|hurd/translator/unionmount]], 
> and we have [[dozens_of_ideas|community/gsoc/project_ideas]] 
> for innovative projects this year. 

> So if you're interested in working on the GNU Hurd,
> or want to help with coordinating (or simply want to be up to date), 
> please come and join in (currently via [[IRC]] every Wednesday at 11:00 UTC). 
> Also we'd be glad to have more eyes on polishing 
> [[our_application/community/gsoc/organization_application]]. 


"""]]
