[[!meta copyright="Copyright © 2011 Free Software Foundation, Inc."]]

[[!meta license="""[[!toggle id="license" text="GFDL 1.2+"]][[!toggleable
id="license" text="Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this
document under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.2 or
any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no Invariant
Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.  A copy of the license
is included in the section entitled [[GNU Free Documentation
License|/fdl]]."]]"""]]

[[!tag stable_URL]]

[[!meta date="2011-07-03 17:30 UTC"]]

A quarter of the Hurd, Q2 of 2011: *Graphical Installer*, *GSoC*, and *Debian*.
[[!if test="included()" then="""[[!toggle id=full_news
text="Details."]][[!toggleable id=full_news text="[[!paste id=full_news]]"]]"""
else="
[[!paste id=full_news]]"]]

[[!cut id="full_news" text="""

[[!template id=note text="**Update**:

[[*A quarter of the Hurd, Q2 of 2011, PS*|2011-q2-ps]] has been published."]]

Jérémie Koenig started working on his [[Google Summer of Code
project|user/jkoenig/java]]: bringing not only Java to the Hurd, but also
fixing or adding missing parts in the Hurd's components along the way.  For
example, he already contributed [a set of signal handling
improvements](http://sourceware.org/ml/libc-alpha/2011-06/threads.html#00119).

Samuel Thibault
[created](http://lists.gnu.org/archive/html/bug-hurd/2011-05/msg00189.html) the
first Debian GNU/Hurd CD set with a graphical installer.  You can dowload it at
[the usual place for Debian CD
images](http://people.debian.org/~sthibault/hurd-i386/installer/cdimage/).

Amongst others, Samuel also [tracked down and
fixed](http://lists.gnu.org/archive/html/bug-hurd/2011-05/msg00025.html) a port
leak in `file_reparent`.  This one got visible on the Debian package builder
machine.

On the organizational side, there is now a real plan to release a Hurd variant
of Debian with their next major release, Wheezy.  Expected towards the end of
2012 or beginning of 2013, the Hurd-specific bits of that release effort's
process are being tracked on <http://wiki.debian.org/Debian_GNU/Hurd>.  There
is still a lot of work left to be done, but -- as everyone knows -- a real goal
as well as a bit of pressure might help to actually get it done.  If you want
to lend a helping hand in order to make this happen, [[porting
packages|contributing#porting]] is a great way to get started and do something
useful at the same time.

Tanguy le Carrour offered to sponsor some Hurd work, and followed up on his
offer by adding to the Hurd bounties that Thomas Schwinge had set up over at on
FOSS Factory -- [[claim them if you can|2011-05-02-foss_factory]]!  It's not
(not yet?) comparable to a Google Summer of Code student's salary, but a step
into the right direction.  So, if you have more money than time and want the
Hurd to advance, why don't you [[join Tanguy|2011-05-02-foss_factory]]?

At the end of August, Hurd folks will be meeting at the [[GNU Hackers
Meeting|community/meetings/ghm2011]] in Paris.  Samuel Thibault will be giving
a talk (*GNU/Hurd, aka. Extensibility from the Ground*), and -- amongs others
-- Jérémie Koenig will be there too, ready to answer all the questions about
his Java/Hurd Google Summer of Code work.

"""]]
