[[!meta copyright="Copyright © 2013, 2016 Free Software Foundation, Inc."]]

[[!meta license="""[[!toggle id="license" text="GFDL 1.2+"]][[!toggleable
id="license" text="Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this
document under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.2 or
any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no Invariant
Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.  A copy of the license
is included in the section entitled [[GNU Free Documentation
License|/fdl]]."]]"""]]

[[!meta date="2013-05-21 23:20 UTC"]]

Debian GNU/Hurd 2013 *released*!
[[!if test="included()" then="""[[!toggle id=full_news
text="Details."]][[!toggleable id=full_news text="[[!paste id=full_news]]"]]"""
else="
[[!paste id=full_news]]"]]

[[!cut id="full_news" text="""

It is with huge pleasure that the Debian GNU/Hurd team announces the 
**release of Debian GNU/Hurd 2013**.
This is a snapshot of Debian "sid" at the time of the Debian
"wheezy" release (May 2013), so it is mostly based on the same sources.  It is *not* an
official Debian release, but it is an official Debian GNU/Hurd port release.

The installation ISO images can be downloaded from
[Debian Ports](http://ftp.ports.debian.org/debian-ports-cd/hurd-i386/current/)
in the usual three Debian flavors: NETINST, CD, DVD.  Besides the friendly
Debian installer, a pre-installed disk image is also available, making it even easier to try
Debian GNU/Hurd.

Debian GNU/Hurd is currently available for the i386 architecture with more
than 10.000 software packages available (more than 75% of the Debian archive, and more
to come!).

Please make sure to read the
[configuration information](http://www.debian.org/ports/hurd/hurd-install),
the [[FAQ]],
and the [[translator primer|hurd/documentation/translator_primer]]
to get a grasp of the great features of GNU/Hurd.

Due to the very small number of developers,
our progress of the project has not been as fast as other successful
operating systems, but we believe to have reached [[a very decent state|hurd/status]], even with our limited resources. 

We would like to thank all the people who have worked on GNU/Hurd [[over the past
decades|history]].  There were not many people at any given time (and still not many people
today, please [[join|contributing]]!), but in the end a lot of people have
contributed one way or another. **Thanks everybody!**

---

The **GNU Hurd** is the GNU project's replacement for the Unix kernel.  It is a
collection of servers that run on the Mach microkernel to implement file
systems, network protocols, file access control, and other features that are
implemented by the Unix kernel or similar kernels (such as Linux).  [[More
detailed|hurd/documentation]].

**GNU Mach** is the microkernel upon which a GNU Hurd system is based.  It
provides an Inter Process Communication (IPC) mechanism that the Hurd uses to
define interfaces for implementing in a distributed multi-server fashion the
services a traditional operating system kernel provides.  [[More
detailed|microkernel/mach/gnumach]].

"""]]
