[[!meta copyright="Copyright © 2013, 2016 Free Software Foundation, Inc."]]

[[!meta license="""[[!toggle id="license" text="GFDL 1.2+"]][[!toggleable
id="license" text="Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this
document under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.2 or
any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no Invariant
Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.  A copy of the license
is included in the section entitled [[GNU Free Documentation
License|/fdl]]."]]"""]]

[[!meta date="2013-09-27 21:59 UTC"]]

Happy 30th birthday, GNU!  GNU Hurd 0.5, GNU Mach 1.4, GNU MIG 1.4 released.
[[!if test="included()" then="""[[!toggle id=full_news
text="Details."]][[!toggleable id=full_news text="[[!paste id=full_news]]"]]"""
else="
[[!paste id=full_news]]"]]

[[!cut id="full_news" text="""

Which day could be better suited for publishing a set of Hurd package releases
than the [GNU project's 30th birthday](http://www.gnu.org/gnu30/)?

... and here we have our birthday presents:

  * **GNU Hurd 0.5**: [[!message-id desc=announcement
    "874n960vyq.fsf@kepler.schwinge.homeip.net"]],
    [NEWS](http://git.savannah.gnu.org/cgit/hurd/hurd.git/tree/NEWS?id=v0.5)
  * **GNU Mach 1.4**: [[!message-id desc=announcement
    "8761tm0vz8.fsf@kepler.schwinge.homeip.net"]],
    [NEWS](http://git.savannah.gnu.org/cgit/hurd/gnumach.git/tree/NEWS?id=v1.4)
  * **GNU MIG 1.4**: [[!message-id desc=announcement
    "877ge20vzt.fsf@kepler.schwinge.homeip.net"]],
    [NEWS](http://git.savannah.gnu.org/cgit/hurd/mig.git/tree/NEWS?id=v1.4)

These new releases bundle bug fixes and enhancements done since the
last releases more than a decade ago; really too many (both years and
improvements) to list them individually, but please see the NEWS files.
Many thanks to all the people who are helping!

If you want to give the Hurd a try, you may easily do so with [[Debian
GNU/Hurd|2013-05-debian_gnu_hurd_2013]].

Please read the [[FAQ]].
Bug reports should be sent to [[mailing_lists/bug-hurd]] or filed on
<http://savannah.gnu.org/bugs/?group=hurd>.  Requests for assistance
should be sent to [[mailing_lists/help-hurd]] or filed on
<http://savannah.gnu.org/support/?group=hurd>.  You can also find us on
the Freenode IRC network in the [[#hurd|IRC]] channel.

---

The **GNU Hurd** is the GNU project's replacement for the Unix kernel.  It is a
collection of servers that run on the Mach microkernel to implement file
systems, network protocols, file access control, and other features that are
implemented by the Unix kernel or similar kernels (such as Linux).  [[More
detailed|hurd/documentation]].

**GNU Mach** is the microkernel upon which a GNU Hurd system is based.  It
provides an Inter Process Communication (IPC) mechanism that the Hurd uses to
define interfaces for implementing in a distributed multi-server fashion the
services a traditional operating system kernel provides.  [[More
detailed|microkernel/mach/gnumach]].

"""]]
