[[!meta copyright="Copyright © 1994, 1995, 1996, 1997, 1998, 1999, 2002, 2009
Free Software Foundation, Inc."]]

[[!meta license="""[[!toggle id="license" text="GFDL 1.2+"]][[!toggleable
id="license" text="Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this
document under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.2 or
any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no Invariant
Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.  A copy of the license
is included in the section entitled [[GNU Free Documentation
License|/fdl]]."]]"""]]

[[!meta title="file_syncfs"]]

    routine file_syncfs (
    	file: file_t;
    	RPT
    	wait: int;
    	do_children: int);

Synchronize the entire filesystem.

This function has a companion in [[`fsys_syncfs`|fsys_syncfs]], which is
invoked on the server's control port instead of an arbitrary node.  Both of
them are usually implemented in equivalent ways.

# Implementation Examples

Servers that either don't keep any unsynchronized state (or don't have a
backing store at all) can simply `return 0`.  Examples: [[translator/nfs]].

The implementation typically doesn't care on which specific node (as exported
by the implementing server) [[`file_syncfs`|file_syncfs]] is being invoked on.

## [[libtrivfs]]

Invoke [[`file_sync`|file_sync]] on the underlying node.  Rationale: the
underlying node represents this filesystem's backend, and once this node is
synchronized, the whole [[libtrivfs]]-based filesystem is to be considered
synchronized.

### [[storeio]] / [[streamio]]

Instead of the to underlying node, pass the call through to the backend
(device).

## [[libnetfs]]

Invoke `netfs_attempt_syncfs`.

## [[libdiskfs]]

Invoke [[`fsys_syncfs`|fsys_syncfs]] on all active children, and invoke
`diskfs_sync_everything` and `diskfs_set_hypermetadata`.

# Usage Examples

## [[glibc]]

  * `sync`

    `file_syncfs ("/", false, true)` -- invoke it on the process' root directory
    (`INIT_PORT_CRDIR`), don't wait for completion, do synchronize child
    filesystems.

## [[Hurd]]

  * [[`syncfs`|syncfs]]
