[[!meta copyright="Copyright © 2011, 2012, 2013 Free Software Foundation,
Inc."]]

[[!meta license="""[[!toggle id="license" text="GFDL 1.2+"]][[!toggleable
id="license" text="Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this
document under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.2 or
any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no Invariant
Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.  A copy of the license
is included in the section entitled [[GNU Free Documentation
License|/fdl]]."]]"""]]

[[!taglink open_issue_documentation]]

A bunch of this should also be covered in other (introductionary) material,
like Bushnell's Hurd paper.  All this should be unfied and streamlined.

[[!toc]]


# IRC, freenode, #hurd, 2011-03-08

    <foocraft> I've a question on what are the "units" in the hurd project, if
      you were to divide them into units if they aren't, and what are the
      dependency relations between those units(roughly, nothing too pedantic
      for now)
    <antrik> there is GNU Mach (the microkernel); there are the server
      libraries in the Hurd package; there are the actual servers in the same;
      and there is the POSIX implementation layer in glibc
    <antrik> relations are a bit tricky
    <antrik> Mach is the base layer which implements IPC and memory management
    <foocraft> hmm I'll probably allocate time for dependency graph generation,
      in the worst case
    <antrik> on top of this, the Hurd servers, using the server libraries,
      implement various aspects of the system functionality
    <antrik> client programs use libc calls to use the servers
    <antrik> (servers also use libc to communicate with other servers and/or
      Mach though)
    <foocraft> so every server depends solely on mach, and no other server?
    <foocraft> s/mach/mach and/or libc/
    <antrik> I think these things should be pretty clear one you are somewhat
      familiar with the Hurd architecture... nothing really tricky there
    <antrik> no
    <antrik> servers often depend on other servers for certain functionality


# IRC, freenode, #hurd, 2011-03-12

    <dEhiN> when mach first starts up, does it have some basic i/o or fs
      functionality built into it to start up the initial hurd translators?
    <antrik> I/O is presently completely in Mach
    <antrik> filesystems are in userspace
    <antrik> the root filesystem and exec server are loaded by grub
    <dEhiN> o I see
    <dEhiN> so in order to start hurd, you would have to start mach and
      simultaneously start the root filesystem and exec server?
    <antrik> not exactly
    <antrik> GRUB loads all three, and then starts Mach. Mach in turn starts
      the servers according to the multiboot information passed from GRUB
    <dEhiN> ok, so does GRUB load them into ram?
    <dEhiN> I'm trying to figure out in my mind how hurd is initially started
      up from a low-level pov
    <antrik> yes, as I said, GRUB loads them
    <dEhiN> ok, thanks antrik...I'm new to the idea of microkernels, but a
      veteran of monolithic kernels
    <dEhiN> although I just learned that windows nt is a hybrid kernel which I
      never knew!
    <rm> note there's a /hurd/ext2fs.static
    <rm> I belive that's what is used initially... right?
    <antrik> yes
    <antrik> loading the shared libraries in addition to the actual server
      would be unweildy
    <antrik> so the root FS server is linked statically instead
    <dEhiN> what does the root FS server do?
    <antrik> well, it serves the root FS ;-)
    <antrik> it also does some bootstrapping work during startup, to bring the
      rest of the system up


# Source Code Documentation

Provide a cross-linked sources documentation, including generated files, like
RPC stubs.

  * <http://www.gnu.org/software/global/>


# [[Hurd_101]]


# [[hurd/IO_path]]

Need more stuff like that.


# IRC, freenode, #hurd, 2011-10-18

    <frhodes> what happens @ boot. and which translators are started in what
      order?
    <antrik> short version: grub loads mach, ext2, and ld.so/exec; mach starts
      ext2; ext2 starts exec; ext2 execs a few other servers; ext2 execs
      init. from there on, it's just standard UNIX stuff


# IRC, OFTC, #debian-hurd, 2011-11-02

    <sekon_> is __dir_lookup a RPC ??
    <sekon_> where can i find the source of __dir_lookup ??
    <sekon_> grepping most gives out rvalue assignments 
    <sekon_> -assignments 
    <sekon_> but in hurs/fs.h it is used as a function ??
    <pinotree> it should be the mig-generated function for that rpc
    <sekon_> how do i know how its implemented ??
    <sekon_> is there any way to delve deeprer into mig-generated functions 
    <tschwinge> sekon_: The MIG-generated stuff will either be found in the
      package's build directory (if it's building it for themselves), or in the
      glibc build directory (libhurduser, libmachuser; which are all the
      available user RPC stubs).
    <tschwinge> sekon_: The implementation can be found in the various Hurd
      servers/libraries.
    <tschwinge> sekon_: For example, [hurd]/libdiskfs/dir-lookup.c.
    <tschwinge> sekon_: What MIG does is provide a function call interface for
      these ``functions'', and the Mach microkernel then dispatches the
      invocation to the corresponding server, for example a /hurd/ext2fs file
      system (via libdiskfs).
    <tschwinge> sekon_: This may help a bit:
      http://www.gnu.org/software/hurd/hurd/hurd_hacking_guide.html


# IRC, freenode, #hurd, 2012-01-08

    <abique> can you tell me how is done in hurd:  "ls | grep x" ?
    <abique> in bash
    <youpi> ls's standard output is a port to the pflocal server, and grep x's
      standard input is a port to the pflocal server
    <youpi> the connexion between both ports inside the pflocal server being
      done by bash when it calls pipe()
    <abique> youpi, so STDOUT_FILENO, STDIN_FILENO, STDERR_FILENO still exists
      ?
    <youpi> sure, hurd is compatible with posix
    <abique> so bash 1) creates T1 (ls) and T2 (grep), then create a pipe at
      the pflocal server, then connects both ends to T1 and T2, then start(T1),
      start(T2) ?
    <youpi> not exactly
    <youpi> it's like on usual unix, bash creates the pipe before creating the
      tasks
    <youpi> then forks to create both of them, handling them each side of the
      pipe
    <abique> ok I see
    <youpi> s/handling/handing/
    <abique> but when you do pipe() on linux, it creates a kernel object, this
      time it's 2 port on the pflocal ?
    <youpi> yes
    <abique> how are spawned tasks ?
    <abique> with fork() ?
    <youpi> yes
    <youpi> which is just task_create() and duplicating the ports into the new
      task
    <abique> ok
    <abique> so it's easy to rewrite fork() with a good control of duplicated
      fd
    <abique> about threading, mutexes, conditions, etc.. are kernel objects or
      just userland objects ?
    <youpi> just ports
    <youpi> (only threads are kernel objects)
    <abique> so, about efficiency, are pipes and mutexes efficient ?
    <youpi> depends what you call "efficient"
    <youpi> it's less efficient than on linux, for sure
    <youpi> but enough for a workable system
    <abique> maybe hurd is the right place for a userland thread library like
      pth or any fiber library
    <abique> ?
    <youpi> hurd already uses a userland thread library
    <youpi> libcthreads
    <abique> is it M:N ?
    <youpi> libthreads, actually
    <youpi> yes

Actually, the Hurd has never used an M:N model. Both libthreads (cthreads) and libpthread use an 1:1 model.

    <abique> nice
    <abique> is the task scheduler in the kernel ?
    <youpi> the kernel thread scheduler, yes, of course
    <youpi> there has to be one
    <abique> are the posix open()/readdir()/etc... the direct vfs or wraps an
      hurd layer libvfs ?
    <youpi> they wrap RPCs to the filesystem servers
    <antrik> the Bushnell paper is probably the closest we have to a high-level
      documentation of these concepts...
    <antrik> the Hurd does not have a central VFS component at all. name
      lookups are performed directly on the individual FS servers
    <antrik> that's probably the most fundamental design feature of the Hurd
    <antrik> (all filesystem operations actually, not only lookups)


## IRC, freenode, #hurd, 2012-01-09

    <braunr> youpi: are you sure cthreads are M:N ? i'm almost sure they're 1:1
    <braunr> and no modern OS is a right place for any thread userspace
      library, as they wouldn't have support to run threads on different
      processors (unless processors can be handled by userspace servers, but
      still, it requires intimate cooperation between the threading library and
      the kernel/userspace server in any case
    <youpi> braunr: in libthreads, they are M:N
    <youpi> you can run threads on different processors by using several kernel
      threads, there's no problem in there, a lot of projects do this
    <braunr> a pure userspace library can't use kernel threads
    <braunr> at least pth was explacitely used on systems like bsd at a time
      when they didn't have kernel threads exactly for that reason
    <braunr> explicitely*
    <braunr> and i'm actually quite surprised to learn that we have an M:N
      threading model :/
    <youpi> why do you say "can't" ?
    <braunr> but i wanted to reply to abique and he's not around
    <youpi> of course you need kernel threads
    <youpi> but all you need is to bind them
    <braunr> well, what i call a userspace threading library is a library that
      completely implement threads without the support of the kernel
    <braunr> or only limited support, like signals
    <youpi> errr, you can't implement anything with absolutely no support of
      the kernel
    <braunr> pth used only SIGALRM iirc
    <youpi> asking for more kernel threads to use more processors doesn't seem
      much
    <braunr> it's not
    <braunr> but i'm refering to what abique said
    <braunr> 01:32 < abique> maybe hurd is the right place for a userland
      thread library like pth or any fiber library
    <youpi> well, it's indeed more, because the glibc lets external libraries
      provide their mutex
    <youpi> while on linux, glibc doesn't
    <braunr> i believe he meant removing thread support from the kernel :p
    <youpi> ah
    <braunr> and replying "nice" to an M:N threading model is also suspicious,
      since experience seems to show 1:1 models are better
    <youpi> "better" ????
    <braunr> yes
    <youpi> well
    <youpi> I don't have any time to argue  about that
    <youpi> because that'd be extremely long
    <braunr> simpler, so far less bugs, and also less headache concerning posix
      conformance
    <youpi> but there's no absolute "better" here
    <youpi> but less performant
    <youpi> less flexible
    <braunr> that's why i mention experience :)
    <youpi> I mean experience too
    <braunr> why less performant ?
    <youpi> because you pay kernel transition
    <youpi> because you don't know anything about the application threads
    <youpi> etc.
    <braunr> really ?
    <youpi> yes
    <braunr> i fail to see where the overhead is
    <youpi> I'm not saying m:n is generally better than 1:1 either
    <youpi> thread switch, thread creation, etc.
    <braunr> creation is slower, i agree, but i'm not sure it's used frequently
      enough to really matter
    <youpi> it is sometimes used frequently enough
    <youpi> and in those cases it would be a headache to avoid it
    <braunr> ok
    <braunr> i thought thread pools were used in those cases
    <youpi> synchronized with kernel mutexes ?
    <youpi> that's still slow
    <braunr> it reduces to the thread switch overhead
    <braunr> which, i agree is slightly slower
    <braunr> ok, i's a bit less performant :)
    <braunr> well don't futexes exist just for that too ?
    <youpi> yes and no
    <youpi> in that case they don't help
    <youpi> because they do sleep
    <youpi> they help only when the threads are living
    <braunr> ok
    <youpi> now as I said I don't have to talk much more, I have to leave :)


# IRC, freenode, #hurd, 2012-12-06

    <braunr> spiderweb: have you read
      http://www.gnu.org/software/hurd/hurd-paper.html ?
    <spiderweb> I'll have a look.
    <braunr> and also the beginning of
      http://ftp.sceen.net/mach/mach_a_new_kernel_foundation_for_unix_development.pdf
    <braunr> these two should provide a good look at the big picture the hurd
      attemtps to achieve
    <Tekk_> I can't help but wonder though, what advantages were really
      achieved with early mach?
    <Tekk_> weren't they just running a monolithic unix server like osx does?
    <braunr> most mach-based systems were
    <braunr> but thanks to that, they could provide advanced features over
      other well established unix systems
    <braunr> while also being compatible
    <Tekk_> so basically it was just an ease of development thing
    <braunr> well that's what mach aimed at being
    <braunr> same for the hurd
    <braunr> making things easy
    <Tekk_> but as a side effect hurd actually delivers on the advantages of
      microkernels aside from that, but the older systems wouldn't, correct?
    <braunr> that's how there could be network file systems in very short time
      and very scarce resources (i.e. developers working on it), while on other
      systems it required a lot more to accomplish that
    <braunr> no, it's not a side effect of the microkernel
    <braunr> the hurd retains and extends the concept of flexibility introduced
      by mach
    <Tekk_> the improved stability, etc. isn't a side effect of being able to
      restart generally thought of as system-critical processes?
    <braunr> no
    <braunr> you can't restart system critical processes on the hurd either
    <braunr> that's one feature of minix, and they worked hard on it
    <Tekk_> ah, okay. so that's currently just the domain of minix
    <Tekk_> okay
    <Tekk_> spiderweb: well, there's 1 advantage of minix for you :P
    <braunr> the main idea of mach is to make it easy to extend unix
    <braunr> without having hundreds of system calls
    <braunr> the hurd keeps that and extends it by making many operations
      unprivileged
    <braunr> you don't need special code for kernel modules any more
    <braunr> it's easy
    <braunr> you don't need special code to handle suid bits and other ugly
      similar hacks,
    <braunr> it's easy
    <braunr> you don't need fuse
    <braunr> easy
    <braunr> etc..


# IRC, freenode, #hurd, 2012-12-06

    <spiderweb> what is the #1 feature that distinguished hurd from other
      operating systems. the concept of translators. (will read more when I get
      more time).
    <braunr> yes, translators
    <braunr> using the VFS as a service directory
    <braunr> and the VFS permissions to control access to those services


# IRC, freenode, #hurd, 2012-12-10

    <spiderweb> I want to work on hurd, but I think I'm going to start with
      minix, I own the minix book 3rd ed. it seems like a good intro to
      operating systems in general. like I don't even know what a semaphore is
      yet.
    <braunr> well, enjoy learning :)
    <spiderweb> once I finish that book, what reading do you guys recommend?
    <spiderweb> other than the wiki
    <braunr> i wouldn't recommend starting with a book that focuses on one
      operating system anyway
    <braunr> you tend to think in terms of what is done in that specific
      implementation and compare everything else to that
    <braunr> tannenbaum is not only the main author or minix, but also the one
      of the book http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Modern_Operating_Systems
    <braunr>
      http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_important_publications_in_computer_science#Operating_systems
      should be a pretty good list :)


# IRC, freenode, #hurd, 2013-03-12

    <mjjc> i have a question regarding ipc in hurd. if a task is created, does
      it contain any default port rights in its space? i am trying to deduce
      how one calls dir_lookup() on the root translator in glibc's open().
    <kilobug> mjjc: yes, there are some default port rights, but I don't
      remember the details :/
    <mjjc> kilobug: do you know where i should search for details?
    <kilobug> mjjc: hum either in the Hurd's hacking guide
      https://www.gnu.org/software/hurd/hacking-guide/ or directly in the
      source code of exec server/libc I would say, or just ask again the
      question here later on to see if someone else has more information
    <mjjc> ok, thanks
    <pinotree> there's also rpctrace to, as the name says, trace all the rpc's
      executed
    <braunr> some ports are introduced in new tasks, yes
    <braunr> see
      http://www.gnu.org/software/hurd/hacking-guide/hhg.html#The-main-function
    <braunr> and
    <braunr>
      http://www.gnu.org/software/hurd/gnumach-doc/Task-Special-Ports.html#Task-Special-Ports
    <mjjc> yes, the second link was just what i was looking for, thanks
    <braunr> the second is very general
    <braunr> also, the first applies to translators only
    <braunr> if you're looking for how to do it for a non-translator
      application, the answer is probably somewhere in glibc
    <braunr> _hurd_startup i'd guess


# IRC, freenode, #hurd, 2013-05-23

    <gnu_srs> Hi, is there any efficient way to control which backed
      translators are called via RPC with a user space program?
    <gnu_srs> Take for example io_stat: S_io_stat is defined in boot/boot.c,
      pfinet/io-ops.c and pflocal/io.c
    <gnu_srs> And the we have libdiskfs/io-stat.c:diskfs_S_io_stat,
      libnetfs/io-stat.c:netfs_S_io_stat, libtreefs/s-io.c:treefs_S_io_stat,
      libtrivfs/io-stat.c:trivfs_S_io_stat
    <gnu_srs> How are they related?
    <braunr> gnu_srs: it depends on the server (translator) managing the files
      (nodes) you're accessing
    <braunr> so use fsysopts to know the server, and see what this server uses
    <gnu_srs> fsysopts /hurd/pfinet and fsysopts /hurd/pflocal gives the same
      answer: ext2fs --writable --no-inherit-dir-group --store-type=typed
      device:hd0s1
    <braunr> of course
    <braunr> the binaries are regular files
    <braunr> see /servers/socket/1 and /servers/socket/2 instead
    <braunr> which are the nodes representing the *service*
    <braunr> again, the hurd uses the file system as a service directory
    <braunr> this usage of the file system is at the core of the hurd design
    <braunr> files are not mere files, they're service names
    <braunr> it happens that, for most files, the service behind them is the
      same as for regular files
    <braunr> gnu_srs: this *must* be obvious for you to do any tricky work on
      the hurd
    <gnu_srs> fsysopts /servers/socket/2 works by /1 gives Operation not
      supported.

[[!taglink open_issue_hurd]].

    <braunr> ah right, some servers don't implement that
    <braunr> work around this by using showtrans
    <braunr> fsysopts asks the server itself how it's running, usually giving
      its command name and options
    <braunr> showtrans asks the parent how it starts a passive translator
      attached to the node
    <gnu_srs> Yes showtrans works :), thanks.
    <gnu_srs> Anyway, if I create a test program calling io_stat I assume
      S_io_stat in pflocal is called.
    <gnu_srs> How to make the program call S_io_stat in pfinet instead? 
    <braunr> create a socket managed by pfinet
    <braunr> i.e. an inet or inet6 socket
    <braunr> you can't assume io_stat is serviced by pflocal
    <braunr> only stats on unix sockets of pipes will be
    <braunr> or*
    <gnu_srs> thanks, what about the *_S_io_stat functions?
    <braunr> what about them ?
    <gnu_srs> How they fit into the picture, e.g. diskfs_io_stat?
    <gnu_srs> *diskfs_S_io_stat
    <braunr> gnu_srs: if you open a file managed by a server using libdiskfs,
      e.g. ext2fs, that one will be called
    <gnu_srs> Using the same user space call: io_stat, right?
    <braunr> it's all userspace
    <braunr> say rather, client-side
    <braunr> the client calls the posix stat() function, which is implemented
      by glibc, which converts it into a call to io_stat, and sends it to the
      server managing the open file
    <braunr> the io_stat can change depending on the server
    <braunr> the remote io_stat implementation, i mean
    <braunr> identify the server, and you will identify the actual
      implementation


# IRC, freenode, #hurd, 2013-06-15

    <damo22> ive been reading a little about exokernels or unikernels, and i
      was wondering if it might be relevant to the GNU/hurd design.  I'm not
      too familiar with hurd terminology so forgive me.  what if every
      privileged service was compiled as its own mini "kernel" that handled (a)
      any hardware related to that service (b) any device nodes exposed by that
      service etc...
    <braunr> yes but not really that way
    <damo22> under the current hurd model of the operating system, how would
      you talk to hardware that required specific timings like sound hardware?
    <braunr> through mapped memory
    <damo22> is there such a thing as an interrupt request in hurd?
    <braunr> obviously
    <damo22> ok
    <damo22> is there any documentation i can read that involves a driver that
      uses irqs for hurd?
    <braunr> you can read the netdde code
    <braunr> dde being another project, there may be documentation about it
    <braunr> somewhere else
    <braunr> i don't know where
    <damo22> thanks
    <damo22> i read a little about dde, apparently it reuses existing code from
      linux or bsd by reimplementing parts of the old kernel like an api or
      something
    <braunr> yes
    <damo22> it must translate these system calls into ipc or something
    <damo22> then mach handles it?
    <braunr> exactly
    <braunr> that's why i say it's not the exokernel way of doing things
    <damo22> ok
    <damo22> so does every low level hardware access go through mach?'
    <braunr> yes
    <braunr> well no
    <braunr> interrupts do
    <braunr> ports (on x86)
    <braunr> everything else should be doable through mapped memory
    <damo22> seems surprising that the code for it is so small
    <braunr> 1/ why surprising ? and 2/ "so small" ?
    <damo22> its like the core of the OS, and yet its tiny compared to say the
      linux kernel
    <braunr> it's a microkenrel
    <braunr> well, rather an hybrid
    <braunr> the size of the equivalent code in linux is about the same
    <damo22> ok
    <damo22> with the model that privileged instructions get moved to
      userspace, how does one draw the line between what is OS and what is user
      code
    <braunr> privileged instructions remain in the kernel
    <braunr> that's one of the few responsibilities of the kernel
    <damo22> i see, so it is an illusion that the user has privilege in a sense
    <braunr> hum no
    <braunr> or, define "illusion"
    <damo22> well the user can suddenly do things never imaginable in linux
    <damo22> that would have required sudo
    <braunr> yes
    <braunr> well, they're not unimaginable on linux
    <braunr> it's just not how it's meant to work
    <damo22> :)
    <braunr> and why things like fuse are so slow
    <braunr> i still don't get "i see, so it is an illusion that the user has
      privilege in a sense"
    <damo22> because the user doesnt actually have the elevated privilege its
      the server thing (translator)?
    <braunr> it does
    <braunr> not at the hardware level, but at the system level
    <braunr> not being able to do it directly doesn't mean you can't do it
    <damo22> right
    <braunr> it means you need indirections
    <braunr> that's what the kernel provides
    <damo22> so the user cant do stuff like outb 0x13, 0x1
    <braunr> he can
    <braunr> he also can on linux
    <damo22> oh
    <braunr> that's an x86 specifity though
    <damo22> but the user would need hardware privilege to do that
    <braunr> no
    <damo22> or some kind of privilege
    <braunr> there is a permission bitmap in the TSS that allows userspace to
      directly access some ports
    <braunr> but that's really x86 specific, again
    <damo22> i was using it as an example
    <damo22> i mean you wouldnt want userspace to directly access everything
    <braunr> yes
    <braunr> the only problem with that is dma reall
    <braunr> y
    <braunr> because dma usually access physical memory directly
    <damo22> are you saying its good to let userspace access everything minus
      dma?
    <braunr> otherwise you can just centralize permissions in one place (the
      kernel or an I/O server for example)
    <braunr> no
    <braunr> you don't let userspace access everything
    <damo22> ah
    <damo22> yes
    <braunr> userspace asks for permission to access one specific part (a
      memory range through mapping)
    <braunr> and can't access the rest (except through dma)
    <damo22> except through dma??  doesnt that pose a large security threat?
    <braunr> no
    <braunr> you don't give away dma access to anyone
    <braunr> only drivers
    <damo22> ahh
    <braunr> and drivers are normally privileged applications anyway
    <damo22> so a driver runs in userspace?
    <braunr> so the only effect is that bugs can affect other address spaces
      indirectly
    <braunr> netdde does
    <damo22> interesting
    <braunr> and they all should but that's not the case for historical reasons
    <damo22> i want to port ALSA to hurd userspace :D
    <braunr> that's not so simple unfortunately
    <braunr> one of the reasons it's hard is that pci access needs arbitration
    <braunr> and we don't have that yet
    <damo22> i imagine that would be difficult
    <braunr> yes
    <braunr> also we're not sure we want alsa
    <braunr> alsa drivers, maybe, but probably not the interface itself
    <damo22> its tangled spaghetti
    <damo22> but the guy who wrote JACK for audio hates OSS, and believes it is
      rubbish due to the fact it tries to read and write to a pcm device node
      like a filesystem with no care for timing
    <braunr> i don't know audio well enough to tell you anything about that
    <braunr> was that about oss3 or oss4 ?
    <braunr> also, the hurd isn't a real time system
    <braunr> so we don't really care about timings
    <braunr> but with "good enough" latencies, it shouldn't be a problem
    <damo22> but if the audio doesnt reach the sound card in time, you will get
      a crackle or a pop or a pause in the signal
    <braunr> yep
    <braunr> it happens on linux too when the system gets some load
    <damo22> some users find this unnacceptable
    <braunr> some users want real time systems
    <braunr> using soft real time is usually plenty enough to "solve" this kind
      of problems
    <damo22> will hurd ever be a real time system?
    <braunr> no idea
    <youpi> if somebody works on it why not
    <youpi> it's the same as linux
    <braunr> it should certainly be simpler than on linux though
    <damo22> hmm
    <braunr> microkernels are well suited for real time because of the well
      defined interfaces they provide and the small amount of code running in
      kernel
    <damo22> that sounds promising
    <braunr> you usually need to add priority inheritance and take care of just
      a few corner cases and that's all
    <braunr> but as youpi said, it still requires work
    <braunr> and nobody's working on it
    <braunr> you may want to check l4 fiasco.oc though
