[[!meta copyright="Copyright © 2010 Free Software Foundation, Inc."]]

[[!meta license="""[[!toggle id="license" text="GFDL 1.2+"]][[!toggleable
id="license" text="Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this
document under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.2 or
any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no Invariant
Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.  A copy of the license
is included in the section entitled [[GNU Free Documentation
License|/fdl]]."]]"""]]

<http://www.hpl.hp.com/personal/Hans_Boehm/gc/>.

`grubber:~tschwinge/tmp/boehm-gc/git/`.

It is used by GCC, for example.

[[tschwinge]] reviewed its GNU/Hurd port / configuration on 2010-11-10,
based on CVS HEAD sources from 2010-11-04, converted to Git:
9abb37b2e581b415bb1f482085891a289c2c0be1.

  * `configure.ac`

      * `PARALLEL_MARK` is not enabled; doesn't make sense so far.

      * `*-*-kfreebsd*-gnu` defines `USE_COMPILER_TLS`.  What's this, and
        why does not other config?

      * TODO

            [ if test "$enable_gc_debug" = "yes"; then
                AC_MSG_WARN("Should define GC_DEBUG and use debug alloc. in clients.")
                AC_DEFINE([KEEP_BACK_PTRS], 1,
                          [Define to save back-pointers in debugging headers.])
                keep_back_ptrs=true
                AC_DEFINE([DBG_HDRS_ALL], 1,
                          [Define to force debug headers on all objects.])
                    AC_DEFINE(MAKE_BACK_GRAPH)
                    AC_MSG_WARN("Client must not use -fomit-frame-pointer.")
                    AC_DEFINE(SAVE_CALL_COUNT, 8)
            AM_CONDITIONAL([KEEP_BACK_PTRS], [test x"$keep_back_ptrs" = xtrue])

  * `configure.host`

    Nothing.

  * `Makefile.am`, `include/include.am`, `cord/cord.am`, `doc/doc.am`

    Nothing.

  * `tests/tests.am`

        if KEEP_BACK_PTRS
        TESTS += tracetest$(EXEEXT)
        check_PROGRAMS += tracetest
        tracetest_SOURCES = tests/trace_test.c
        tracetest_LDADD = $(test_ldadd)
        endif
        
        if THREADS
        TESTS += threadleaktest$(EXEEXT)
        check_PROGRAMS += threadleaktest
        threadleaktest_SOURCES = tests/thread_leak_test.c
        threadleaktest_LDADD = $(test_ldadd)
        endif
        
        if CPLUSPLUS
        TESTS += test_cpp$(EXEEXT)
        check_PROGRAMS += test_cpp
        test_cpp_SOURCES = tests/test_cpp.cc
        if AVOID_CPP_LIB
        test_cpp_LDADD = gc_cpp.o $(test_ldadd)
        else
        test_cpp_LDADD = libgccpp.la $(test_ldadd)
        endif
        endif

  * `doc/README.macros`

    TODO.

  * `doc/porting.html`

    TODO.

  * `include/gc_config_macros.h`

    Should be OK.

  * `include/private/gcconfig.h`

    Hairy.  But should be OK.  Search for *HURD*, compare to *LINUX*,
    *I386* case.

    See `doc/porting.html` and `doc/README.macros` (and others) for
    documentation.

    *LINUX* has:

      * `#define LINUX_STACKBOTTOM`

        Defined instead of `STACKBOTTOM` to have the value read from `/proc/`.

      * `#define HEAP_START (ptr_t)0x1000`

        May want to define it for us, too?

      * `#ifdef USE_I686_PREFETCH`, `USE_3DNOW_PREFETCH` --- [...]

        Apparently these are optimization that we also could use.  Have a
        look at *LINUX* for *X86_64*, which uses `__builtin_prefetch`
        (which Linux x86 could use, too?).

      * TODO

            #if defined(LINUX) && defined(USE_MMAP)
                /* The kernel may do a somewhat better job merging mappings etc.    */
                /* with anonymous mappings.                                         */
            #   define USE_MMAP_ANON
            #endif

      * TODO

            #if defined(GC_LINUX_THREADS) && defined(REDIRECT_MALLOC)
                /* Nptl allocates thread stacks with mmap, which is fine.  But it   */
                /* keeps a cache of thread stacks.  Thread stacks contain the       */
                /* thread control blocks.  These in turn contain a pointer to       */
                /* (sizeof (void *) from the beginning of) the dtv for thread-local */
                /* storage, which is calloc allocated.  If we don't scan the cached */
                /* thread stacks, we appear to lose the dtv.  This tends to         */
                /* result in something that looks like a bogus dtv count, which     */
                /* tends to result in a memset call on a block that is way too      */
                /* large.  Sometimes we're lucky and the process just dies ...      */
                /* There seems to be a similar issue with some other memory         */
                /* allocated by the dynamic loader.                                 */
                /* This should be avoidable by either:                              */
                /* - Defining USE_PROC_FOR_LIBRARIES here.                          */
                /*   That performs very poorly, precisely because we end up         */
                /*   scanning cached stacks.                                        */
                /* - Have calloc look at its callers.                               */
                /*   In spite of the fact that it is gross and disgusting.          */
                /* In fact neither seems to suffice, probably in part because       */
                /* even with USE_PROC_FOR_LIBRARIES, we don't scan parts of stack   */
                /* segments that appear to be out of bounds.  Thus we actually      */
                /* do both, which seems to yield the best results.                  */
            
            #   define USE_PROC_FOR_LIBRARIES
            #endif

      * TODO

            # if defined(GC_LINUX_THREADS) && defined(REDIRECT_MALLOC) \
                 && !defined(INCLUDE_LINUX_THREAD_DESCR)
                /* Will not work, since libc and the dynamic loader use thread      */
                /* locals, sometimes as the only reference.                         */
            #   define INCLUDE_LINUX_THREAD_DESCR
            # endif

      * TODO

            # if defined(UNIX_LIKE) && defined(THREADS) && !defined(NO_CANCEL_SAFE) \
                 && !defined(PLATFORM_ANDROID)
                /* Make the code cancellation-safe.  This basically means that we   */
                /* ensure that cancellation requests are ignored while we are in    */
                /* the collector.  This applies only to Posix deferred cancellation;*/
                /* we don't handle Posix asynchronous cancellation.                 */
                /* Note that this only works if pthread_setcancelstate is           */
                /* async-signal-safe, at least in the absence of asynchronous       */
                /* cancellation.  This appears to be true for the glibc version,    */
                /* though it is not documented.  Without that assumption, there     */
                /* seems to be no way to safely wait in a signal handler, which     */
                /* we need to do for thread suspension.                             */
                /* Also note that little other code appears to be cancellation-safe.*/
                /* Hence it may make sense to turn this off for performance.        */
            #   define CANCEL_SAFE
            # endif

      * `CAN_SAVE_CALL_ARGS` vs. -fomit-frame-pointer now being on by
        default for Linux x86 IIRC?  (Which is an [[!taglink
        open_issue_gcc]] for not including us.)

      * TODO

            # if defined(REDIRECT_MALLOC) && defined(THREADS) && !defined(LINUX)
            #   error "REDIRECT_MALLOC with THREADS works at most on Linux."
            # endif


    *HURD* has:

      * `#define STACK_GROWS_DOWN`

      * `#define HEURISTIC2`

        Defined instead of `STACKBOTTOM` to have the value probed.

        Linux also has this:

            #if defined(LINUX_STACKBOTTOM) && defined(NO_PROC_STAT) \
                && !defined(USE_LIBC_PRIVATES)
                /* This combination will fail, since we have no way to get  */
                /* the stack base.  Use HEURISTIC2 instead.                 */
            #   undef LINUX_STACKBOTTOM
            #   define HEURISTIC2
                /* This may still fail on some architectures like IA64.     */
                /* We tried ...                                             */
            #endif

        Being on [[glibc]], we could perhaps do similar as
        `USE_LIBC_PRIVATES` instead of `HEURISTIC2`.  Pro: avoid
        `SIGSEGV` (and general fragility) during probing at startup (if
        I'm understanding this correctly).  Con: rely on glibc internals.
        Or we instead add support to parse `/proc/` (can even use the
        same as Linux?), or use some other interface.

      * `#define SIG_SUSPEND SIGUSR1`, `#define SIG_THR_RESTART SIGUSR2`

      * We don't `#define MPROTECT_VDB` (WIP comment); but Linux neither.

      * Where does our `GETPAGESIZE` come from?  Should we `#include
        <unistd.h>` like it is done for *LINUX*?

  * `mach_dep.c`

    TODO.

  * `os_dep.c`

    TODO.

  * `dyn_load.c`

    For `DYNAMIC_LOADING`.  TODO.

  * `pthread_support.c`, `pthread_stop_world.c`

    TODO.

  * `libatomic_ops/`

      * `configure.ac`

        Nothing.

      * `Makefile`, `src/Makefile`, `src/atomic_ops/Makefile`,
        `src/atomic_ops/sysdeps/Makefile`, `doc/Makefile`, `tests/Makefile`

        Nothing.

      * `src/atomic_ops/sysdeps/gcc/x86.h`

        Nothing.

---

Other TODOs:

  * [[gcc/boehm_gc]]

  * Port stuff to GCC / test it there.

  * What are other applications to test boehm-gc?  Also in combination
    with [[libpthread]]?
