[[!meta copyright="Copyright © 2013 Free Software Foundation, Inc."]]

[[!meta license="""[[!toggle id="license" text="GFDL 1.2+"]][[!toggleable
id="license" text="Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this
document under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.2 or
any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no Invariant
Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.  A copy of the license
is included in the section entitled [[GNU Free Documentation
License|/fdl]]."]]"""]]

Some *cloud*y things.

[[!toc]]


# [[!wikipedia OpenStack]]

## IRC, freenode, #hurd, 2013-09-21

    <jproulx> Hmmm, was hoping to run hurd on my kvm based openstack cloud, but
      no virtio.
    <jproulx> I see "Write virtio drivers for KVM. Ideally they would be
      userland" is listed as a "small hack", as a sysadmin rather than an OS
      hacker it doesn't sound small to me, but if there's some standard
      documentation on porting drivers I could take a run at it.
    <youpi> well, perhaps "small" is not the proper word
    <youpi> compared to e.g. revamping disk i/o :)
    <youpi> it's not something one can achieve in e.g. 1h, for instance
    <youpi> it's not something straightforward either, one has to get
      documentation about virtio (I don't know what exists), and get
      documentation about the mach device interface (that's in the gnumach
      manual, the devnode translator can be used as a skeleton)
    <youpi> jproulx: openstack imposes the use of virtio drivers? that's odd
    <jproulx> that's more like I'd expect. I there's enough search terms in
      your response for me to see what's really involved
    <jproulx> youpi it doesn't impose that but it is how mine is configured the
      other thousand VMs are happier that way.
    <jproulx> I can look at that side too and see if I need to have everything
      use the same device settings or if I can control it per instance
    <jproulx> A bit of a non-sequitur at this point but just in case someone
      searches the transcripts and sees my questions about hurd on openstack,
      yes it is possible to specify non-virtio devices per image, here's the
      commandline to load sthibault's qemu image into openstack with devices
      that work:
    <jproulx> glance image-create --property hw_disk_bus=ide --property
      hw_cdrom_bus=ide --property hw_vif_model=rtl8139 --disk-format raw
      --container-format bare --name gnu-hurd --copy-from
      http://people.debian.org/~sthibault/hurd-i386/debian-hurd.img
    <youpi> jproulx: thanks, I've pushed it on the wiki
