[[!meta copyright="Copyright © 2010 Free Software Foundation, Inc."]]

[[!meta license="""[[!toggle id="license" text="GFDL 1.2+"]][[!toggleable
id="license" text="Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this
document under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.2 or
any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no Invariant
Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.  A copy of the license
is included in the section entitled [[GNU Free Documentation
License|/fdl]]."]]"""]]

[[!tag open_issue_porting]]

IRC, unknown channel, 2008-05-26 and later

    <paakku> In elinks/src/network/state.h, there is an assumption that values of errno are between 0 and 100000.  Now looking at glibc-2.5/sysdeps/mach/hurd/bits/errno.h, I see that you're using values outside this range.  Have there been problems because of this?
    <youpi> eeerf
    <youpi> I had never seen a program assuming that
    <youpi> that sucks
    <paakku> It can be fixed, but that'd require some work, so I'd like to first have a clear idea of the effects.
    <youpi> fixed where ?
    <paakku> in elinks
    <youpi> k
    <paakku> by allocating just one number from our enum connection_state for system errors, and then stashing the errno value in a separate variable.
    <paakku> Anyway, if you see this cause any user-visible bugs in ELinks, please report.

    <kahmalo> I mentioned here on 2008-05-26 that ELinks assumes errno values are between 0 and 100000 whereas the Hurd uses other values.  I fixed this in ELinks last weekend; the most recent 0.12 and 0.13 snapshots should include the fix.  If you find any remaining errno assumptions, please post to: http://bugzilla.elinks.cz/show_bug.cgi?id=1013
    <kahmalo> or to one of our mailing lists.
    <kahmalo> I guess the pflocal select() bug http://savannah.gnu.org/bugs/?22861 is the primary hindrance to running ELinks on the Hurd.  Has any decision been made on how that will be fixed?
