[[!meta copyright="Copyright © 2009 Free Software Foundation, Inc."]]

[[!meta license="""[[!toggle id="license" text="GFDL 1.2+"]][[!toggleable
id="license" text="Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this
document under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.2 or
any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no Invariant
Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.  A copy of the license
is included in the section entitled [[GNU Free Documentation
License|/fdl]]."]]"""]]

[[!meta title="GNU Emacs"]]

[[!tag open_issue_porting]]

GNU Emacs mostly does work, however there are a few issues.

  * `dired` on a directory hangs.  (Use `C-g C-g` to break the unresponsive
    operation.)

  * Configuration in `src/s/`: `gnu.h` uses `bsd-common.h`.  `gnu-kfreebsd.h`
    uses `gnu-linux.h` -- we probably should too.

      * `gnu-linux.h` makes a few things depend on `/proc` (also see
        `HAVE_PROCFS`) -- either resort to our own ways, or enhance our
        [[hurd/translator/procfs]] accordingly.

          * `sysdep.c`

  * Got a hang when compiling GNU Emacs 23, when it was compiling `.el` to
    `.elc` files.  Looked like busy-looping inside glibc.  This was not
    reproducible so far.

  * Debian emacs23_23.1+1-2, grubber, (probably) busy-looping in `ext2fs` on
    `/media/data` when resuming emacs23 build in `~/tmp/emacs/emacs23-*/`
    (`dpkg-buildpackage -B -uc -nc 2>&1 | tee L`).  No modifications to
    `emacs23-*` so far, I think.  Hangs always in the same place, it seems, and
    reproducible.  Tarred to `emacs23-23.1+1.tar.bz2` (beware: empty and
    zero-permission files:
    `emacs23-23.1+1/.pc/debian-site-init-el.diff/lisp/site-init.el`,
    `emacs23-23.1+1/.pc/autofiles.diff/src/config.in~`).  At hang-time: the
    rootfs is fine (`syncfs -c -s /` works; `syncfs` involving `/media/data`
    hangs).  Plan: GDB on that ext2fs, and see what's hanging / locked.  [[!tag
    open_issue_hurd]]
