[[!meta copyright="Copyright © 2007, 2008, 2009, 2010 Free Software Foundation,
Inc."]]

[[!meta license="""[[!toggle id="license" text="GFDL 1.2+"]][[!toggleable
id="license" text="Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this
document under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.2 or
any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no Invariant
Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.  A copy of the license
is included in the section entitled
[[GNU Free Documentation License|/fdl]]."]]"""]]

[[!tag open_issue_gcc]]

Here's what's to be done for maintaining GCC.

Apart from the target-specific configuration machinery, there shouldn't be any
major differences within GCC between the GNU/Hurd and GNU/Linux ports, for
example.  Especially all the compiler magic is all the same.


# [[General information|/gcc]]


# [[Sources|source_repositories/gcc]]


## Boehm GC

GCC includes an own variant of [[/Boehm_GC]] that is based on an upstream
version, but with own patches, etc.  This is used for Java.  (There are patches
(apparently not committed) that GCC itself can use it, too:
<http://gcc.gnu.org/wiki/Garbage_collection_tuning>.)

Patches to GCC's fork should be contributed back to upstream [[/Boehm_GC]].

[[tschwinge]] reviewed (but only briefly for large parts) the differences on
2010-12-08, based on the [[GCC Git mirror's
8e79e9d43f32c8852f068da91d655297d92ac0f4 (2010-11-29)
sources|source_repositories/GCC]] and Boehm GC's CVS HEAD sources from
2010-12-02, converted to [[Git, correspondingly
1c2455988a8f59a5f83b986b9156f03be395b3b6|source_repositories/boehm_gc]].

On 2010-11-17,
[[tschwinge]] reviewed the Debian GCC Boehm GC changes, compared them to the
upstream code, and put it into the local *hurd/boehm-gc/config_backport*
branch, planning to submit it to gcc-patches after testing with the GCC
[[testsuite]].


# Configuration

Last reviewed up to the [[Git mirror's 3457702eb6f8ee22acaee881dc7f783c3aa2fa91
(2010-12-08) sources|source_repositories/gcc]].

<http://gcc.gnu.org/install/configure.html> has documentation for the
`configure` switches.

  * Configure fragments that have `*linux*` cases might/should often contain
    those for us (and GNU/k*BSD) as well.

      * `configure.ac`

      * `libgcc/configure.ac` [might
        need](http://gcc.gnu.org/ml/gcc-patches/2008-10/msg00315.html) to be
        aligned for us to the `*linux*` cases.  As well as at the end of
        `libgcc/config.host`.  Check.

            checking whether decimal floating point is supported... no
            checking whether fixed-point is supported... no

      * `libgomp/configure.tgt`

      * Etc.

  * [[`libmudflap`|libmudflap]].

  * Might [`-fsplit-stack`](http://nickclifton.livejournal.com/6889.html) be
    worthwhile w.r.t. our multithreaded libraries?

  * <http://gcc.gnu.org/ml/gcc/2007-11/msg00289.html>,
    <http://gcc.gnu.org/ml/gcc-patches/2010-12/msg00672.html>

  * `--enable-languages=[...]`

      * GNAT is not yet ported / bootstrapped?

      * The Google Go's libgo (introduced in
        e440a3286bc89368b8d3a8fd6accd47191790bf2 (2010-12-03)) apparently needs
        OS configuration / support.

  * `--enable-frame-pointer`

    `gcc/configure.ac`: `enable_frame_pointer=no`

  * `--with-dwarf2`?

  * `--enable-werror`

  * `--enable-checking`

  * `--enable-build-with-cxx`

  * `--enable-decimal-float`, `--enable-fixed-point`, `--with-long-double-128`

    `configure: WARNING: decimal float is not supported for this target,
    ignored`

  * `--enable-linker-build-id`

  * `--enable-gnu-unique-object`

  * `--enable-lto`, `--enable-gold`

    [[binutils_gold]]

  * `--enable-indirect-function`

    [[IFUNC]]


# [[Testsuite]]


# TODO

Debian's GCC package has Hurd-specific patches.  Some have been forwarded
upstream (and have been ignored).  [[Thomas_Schwinge|tschwinge]] is working on
getting them integrated.

  * [\[meta-bug\] bootstrap bugs for
    \*-gnu\*](http://gcc.gnu.org/bugzilla/show_bug.cgi?id=21824)

  * [build system: gcc\_cv\_libc\_provides\_ssp and
    NATIVE\_SYSTEM\_HEADER\_DIR](http://gcc.gnu.org/ml/gcc/2008-10/msg00130.html)

  * [-fstack-protector shouldn't use TLS in freestanding
    mode](http://gcc.gnu.org/bugzilla/show_bug.cgi?id=29838)

  * [Tool chain configuration: GNU/\* sharing stuff with
    GNU/Linux](http://gcc.gnu.org/ml/gcc/2007-11/msg00289.html)
