[[!meta copyright="Copyright © 2009, 2010, 2011 Free Software Foundation,
Inc."]]

[[!meta license="""[[!toggle id="license" text="GFDL 1.2+"]][[!toggleable
id="license" text="Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this
document under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.2 or
any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no Invariant
Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.  A copy of the license
is included in the section entitled [[GNU Free Documentation
License|/fdl]]."]]"""]]

[[!meta title="GDB HEAD broken"]]

[[!tag open_issue_gdb]]

    tschwinge@blubber:~/tmp/gdb/HEAD.build $ echo 'void main(void){*(volatile int *)0;}' |
    > gcc -o 0 -x c -
    <stdin>: In function ‘main’:
    <stdin>:1: warning: return type of ‘main’ is not ‘int’
    tschwinge@blubber:~/tmp/gdb/HEAD.build $ ./0
    Segmentation fault
    tschwinge@blubber:~/tmp/gdb/HEAD.build $ gdb/gdb 0
    GNU gdb (GDB) 7.0.50.20091111-cvs
    Copyright (C) 2009 Free Software Foundation, Inc.
    License GPLv3+: GNU GPL version 3 or later <http://gnu.org/licenses/gpl.html>
    This is free software: you are free to change and redistribute it.
    There is NO WARRANTY, to the extent permitted by law.  Type "show copying"
    and "show warranty" for details.
    This GDB was configured as "i386-unknown-gnu0.3".
    For bug reporting instructions, please see:
    <http://www.gnu.org/software/gdb/bugs/>...
    Reading symbols from /media/data/home/tschwinge/tmp/gdb/HEAD.build/0...done.
    (gdb) r
    Starting program: /media/data/home/tschwinge/tmp/gdb/HEAD.build/0 
    Can't fetch registers from thread bogus thread id 1: No such thread
    (gdb) quit
    A debugging session is active.
    
            Inferior 1 [bogus thread id 0] will be killed.
    
    Quit anyway? (y or n) y


Good: 2009-10-19 09:30  
Bad: 2009-10-19 10

<http://sourceware.org/bugzilla/show_bug.cgi?id=12222>

---

2011-07-04: no longer reproducible with GDB HEAD?
