[[!meta copyright="Copyright © 2012, 2013 Free Software Foundation, Inc."]]

[[!meta license="""[[!toggle id="license" text="GFDL 1.2+"]][[!toggleable
id="license" text="Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this
document under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.2 or
any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no Invariant
Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.  A copy of the license
is included in the section entitled [[GNU Free Documentation
License|/fdl]]."]]"""]]

[[!meta title="GDB: attach"]]

[[!tag open_issue_gdb]]


# [[gdb_thread_ids]]


# IRC, freenode, #hurd, 2012-06-30

    <braunr> hm, gdb isn't able to determine which thread is running when
      attaching to a process


# IRC, freenode, #hurd, 2012-07-02

    <braunr> woah, now that's a weird message !
    <braunr> when using gdb on a hanged ext2fs :
    <braunr> Pid 938 has an additional task suspend count of 1; clear it? (y or
      n) 
    <braunr> when hanged, gdb thinks the target task is already being debugged
      :/
    <braunr> no wonder why it's completely stuck
    <braunr> hm, the task_suspend might actually be the crash-dump-core server
      attempting to create the core :/
    <braunr> hm interesting, looks like a problem with the
      diskfs_catch_exception macro
    <pinotree> braunr: what's up with it?
    <braunr> pinotree: it uses setjmp
    <braunr> hm random corruptions :/
    <braunr> definitely looks like a concurrency problem


# IRC, freenode, #hurd, 2012-05-23

    <pinotree>
      /build/buildd-gdb_7.4really-1-hurd-i386-UKStgK/gdb-7.4really/gdb/thread.c:72:
      internal-error: inferior_thread: Assertion `tp' failed.
    <pinotree> arg
    <tschwinge> pinotree: Been doing anything "special"?   Is it reproducible? 
    <pinotree> trying to debug something
    <tschwinge> Indeed.  ;-)
    <pinotree> i'm not sure i'm doing anything special, just trying to attach a
      process
    <tschwinge> That is supposed to work.
    <tschwinge> If the permission match.


# `gdb --pid [PID]`

That is, not explicitly specifying an `executable-file`.


## IRC, OFTC, debian-hurd, 2013-04-15

    <paravoid> I don't seem to be able to run gdb
    <paravoid> that happened on the buildd and happens on exodar too
    <paravoid> #0  0x010c07cc in ?? ()
    <paravoid> #1  0x010c1078 in ?? ()
    <paravoid> #2  0x0109eabf in ?? ()
    <paravoid> [...]
    <paravoid> Backtrace stopped: previous frame inner to this frame (corrupt
      stack?)
    <paravoid> that's pid 24235 on exodar
    <paravoid> I did gdb -p 24235 and then bt
    <paravoid> just the output above
    <youpi> I don't know about gdb -p
    <youpi> I usually run gdb
      /home/paravoid/gdnsd-1.8.1/plugins/meta/libgdmaps/t/.libs/lt-t17_extn_empty.bin
      24235
    <paravoid> okay, that indeed works 
    <youpi> I guess the support for finding out the binary automatically wasn't
      done yet on hurd
