[[!meta copyright="Copyright © 2011 Free Software Foundation, Inc."]]

[[!meta license="""[[!toggle id="license" text="GFDL 1.2+"]][[!toggleable
id="license" text="Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this
document under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.2 or
any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no Invariant
Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.  A copy of the license
is included in the section entitled [[GNU Free Documentation
License|/fdl]]."]]"""]]

[[!tag open_issue_gnumach]]


# IRC, freenode, #hurd, 2011-07-20

    <braunr> could we add gnumach forward map entry merging as an open issue ?
    <braunr> probably hurting anything using bash extensively, like build most
      build systems
    <braunr> mcsim: this map entry merging problem might interest you
    <braunr> tschwinge: see vm/vm_map.c, line ~905
    <braunr> "See whether we can avoid creating a new entry (and object) by
      extending one of our neighbors.  [So far, we only attempt to extend from
      below.]"
    <braunr> and also vm_object_coalesce
    <braunr> "NOTE:   Only works at the moment if the second object is NULL -
      if it's not, which object do we lock first?"
    <braunr> although map entry merging should be enough
    <braunr> this seems to be the cause for bash having between 400 and 1000+
      map entries
    <braunr> thi makes allocations and faults slow, and forks even more
    <braunr> but again, this should be checked before attempting anything
    <braunr> (for example, this comment still exists in freebsd, although they
      solved the problem, so who knows)
    <antrik> braunr: what exactly would you want to check?
    <antrik> braunr: this rather sounds like something you would just have to
      try...
    <braunr> antrik: that map merging is actually incomplete
    <braunr> and that entries can actually be merged
    <antrik> hm, I see...
    <braunr> (i.e. they are adjacent and have compatible properties
    <braunr> )
    <braunr> antrik: i just want to avoid the "hey, splay trees mak fork slow,
      let's work on it for a month to see it wasn't the problem"
    <antrik> so basically you need a dump of a task's map to check whether
      there are indeed entries that could/should be merged?
    <antrik> hehe :-)
    <braunr> well, vminfo should give that easily, i just didn't take the time
      to check it
    <jkoenig> braunr, as you pointed out, "vminfo $$" seems to indicate that
      merging _is_ incomplete.
    <braunr> this could actually have a noticeable impact on package builds


# Procedure

  * Analyze.

  * Measure.

  * Fix.

  * Measure again.

  * Have [[tschwinge]] measure with gcc build (currently needs 11 h).
    [[tschwinge]] will in the mean time figure out the difference between using
    bash and dash.

  * Have Samuel measure on the buildd.
