[[!meta copyright="Copyright © 2015 Free Software Foundation, Inc."]]

[[!meta license="""[[!toggle id="license" text="GFDL 1.2+"]][[!toggleable
id="license" text="Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this
document under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.2 or
any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no Invariant
Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.  A copy of the license
is included in the section entitled [[GNU Free Documentation
License|/fdl]]."]]"""]]

[[!tag open_issue_hurd]]

http://bugs.debian.org/413326

The X server does not terminate when the user X session is finished. This is due
to xinit not being able to kill the setuid Xorg.

On the sending side, glibc does:

        err = HURD_MSGPORT_RPC (__proc_getmsgport (proc, pid, &msgport),
                                  (taskerr = __proc_pid2task (proc, pid,
                                                              &refport)) ?
                                  __proc_getsidport (proc, &refport) : 0, 1,
                                  kill_port (msgport, refport));
        }

I.e. asks proc for the task port, and if that fails, asks proc for the
session port, then it sends the signal.

It happens that since the target got setuid'ed, the proc server had set it
owned by root, and hence (rightfully) refuses to return the task port through
pid2task.  As a result only proc_getsidport() works, but that will be accepted
by the receiving side only for some signals.

POSIX says

«
  For a process to have permission to send a signal to a process designated
  by pid, unless the sending process has appropriate privileges, the real or
  effective user ID of the sending process shall match the real or saved
  set-user-ID of the receiving process.
»

And indeed Xorg keeps the original user uid as real uid, so that xinit can kill
it when the session is finished.

We probably need to implement another reference port that the killer can send to
the killee. It may be useful for some other operations that users can do on the
setuid processes they have started.
