[[!meta copyright="Copyright © 2011, 2012, 2013, 2014, 2015 Free Software
Foundation, Inc."]]

[[!meta license="""[[!toggle id="license" text="GFDL 1.2+"]][[!toggleable
id="license" text="Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this
document under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.2 or
any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no Invariant
Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.  A copy of the license
is included in the section entitled [[GNU Free Documentation
License|/fdl]]."]]"""]]

[[!tag open_issue_libpthread]]

[[!toc]]

# [[FAQ entry|faq/libpthread_dlopen]]

Some applications don't themselves link against libpthread, but then load
plugins which do link against libpthread.  This means internally switching from
single-threading to multi-threading, which is only supported since libc0.3
2.19-16~2. Previously, it would result in errors such as:

    ./pthread/../sysdeps/generic/pt-mutex-timedlock.c:70: __pthread_mutex_timedlock_internal: Assertion `__pthread_threads' failed.

*This is now fixed as of libc0.3 2.19-16~2.*

# IRC, freenode, #hurd, 2010-01-24

    <pinotree> youpi: hm, thought about the pthread/stubs issue w/ dlopen'ed
      libraries
    <pinotree> currently looks like libstdc++ on hurd links to pthread-stubs,
      we're the only one with such configuration
    <pinotree> i was looking at the gcc 4.4 patch hurd-pthread.diff, could it
      be it does not set THREADLIBS in the configure.ac switch case?
    <youpi> that's expected
    <youpi> on linux the libc provides hooks itself, on hurd-i386 it's
      pthread-stubs
    <pinotree> why not explicitly link to pthread though?
    <youpi> because there is no strict need to, for applications that don't
      need libpthread
    <youpi> the dlopen case is a tricky case that pthread-stubs had not thought
      about
    <pinotree> hm
    <pinotree> what if the pthread stubs would be moved in our glibc?
    <youpi> that's what we should do yes
    <youpi> (ideally)
    <youpi> but for this we need to build libpthread along glibc, to get it
      really working

[[Packaging_libpthread]].

    <youpi> and that's the tricky part (Makefile & such) which hasn't been done
      yet
    <pinotree> why both (stubs + actual libpthread)?
    <youpi> because you need the stubs to be able to call the actual libpthread
    <youpi> as soon libpthread gets dlopened for instance
    <youpi> +as
    <pinotree> i see
    <youpi> (remember that nptl does this if you want to see how)
    <youpi> (it's the libc files in nptl/)
    <youpi> (and forward.c)
    <guillem> also if libpthreads gets integrated with glibc don't we need to
      switch the hurd from cthreads then? Which has been the blocker all this
      time AFAIR?
    <youpi> we don't _need_ to
    <guillem> ok


# IRC, OFTC, #debian-hurd, 2011-07-21

    <youpi> there's one known issue with pthreads
    <youpi> you can't dlopen() it

... if the main application is not already linked against it.

    <youpi> which also means you can't dlopen() a module which depends on it if
      the main application hasn't used -lpthread already
    <youpi> (so as to get libpthread initialized early, not at the dlopen()
      call)
    <lucas> I get this while building simgrid:
    <lucas> cd /home/lucas/simgrid-3.6.1/obj-i486-gnu/examples/gras/console &&
      /usr/bin/cmake -E create_symlink
      /home/lucas/simgrid-3.6.1/obj-i486-gnu/lib/libsimgrid.so
      /home/lucas/simgrid-3.6.1/obj-i486-gnu/examples/gras/console/simgrid.so
    <lucas> cd /home/lucas/simgrid-3.6.1/obj-i486-gnu/examples/gras/console &&
      lua /home/lucas/simgrid-3.6.1/examples/gras/console/ping_generator.lua
    <lucas> lua:
      /home/buildd/build/chroot-sid/home/buildd/byhand/hurd/./libpthread/sysdeps/generic/pt-mutex-timedlock.c:68:
      __pthread_mutex_timedlock_internal: Assertion `__pthread_threads' failed.
    <lucas> Aborted (core dumped)
    <youpi> that's it, yes
    <youpi> (or at least it has the same symptoms)
    <lucas> it would need fixing in lua, not in SG, then, right?
    <youpi> yes
    <lucas> ok, thanks

The fix thus being: link the main application with -lpthread.

IRC, freenode, #hurd, 2011-08-17

    < youpi> i.e. openjade apparently dlopen()s modules which use pthreads, but
      openjade itself is not liked against libpthread
    < youpi> which means unexpectedly  loading pthreads on the fly, which is
      not implemented
    < youpi> (and hard to implement of course)
    < youpi> gnu_srs: so simply tell openjade people to link it with -lpthread
    < gnu_srs> Shuoldn't missing linking with pthread create an error when
      building openjade then?
    < youpi> no
    < youpi> because it's just a module which needs pthread
    < youpi> and that module _is_ linked with -lpthread
    < youpi> and dlopen() loads libpthreads too due to that
    < youpi> but that's unexpected, for the libpthread initialization stuff
    < youpi> (and too late to fix initlaization)
    < gnu_srs> How come that other OSes build opensp w/o problems?
    < youpi> because there are stubs in the libc
    < gnu_srs> Sorry for the delay: What hinders stubs to be present also in
      the Hurd libc parts too, to cope with this problem?
    < youpi> doing it
    < youpi> which is hard because you need libpthread bits inside the libc
    < youpi> making it simpler would need building libpthread at the same time
      as libc

[[packaging_libpthread]]


# IRC, freenode, #hurd, 2013-09-03

    <gnu_srs> iceweasel: ./pthread/../sysdeps/generic/pt-mutex-timedlock.c:70:
      __pthread_mutex_timedlock_internal: Assertion `__pthread_threads' failed.
    <pinotree> LD_PRELOAD libpthread
    <gnu_srs> why
    <pinotree> missing link to pthread?
    <pinotree> and yes, it's known already, just nobody worked on solving it


# IRC, freenode, #hurd, 2014-01-28

    <gnu_srs> braunr: Is this fixed by your recent patches? test_dbi:
      ./pthread/../sysdeps/generic/pt-mutex-timedlock.c:70: 
    <gnu_srs> __pthread_mutex_timedlock_internal: Assertion `__pthread_threads'
      failed.
    <youpi> faq/libpthread_dlopen.mdwn:
      ./pthread/../sysdeps/generic/pt-mutex-timedlock.c:70:
      __pthread_mutex_time
    <gnu_srs> youpi: tks. A workaround seems to be available:
      LD_PRELOAD=/lib/i386-gnu/libpthread.so.0.3
    <gnu_srs> Is that possible on a buildd?
    <youpi> it would be simpler to just make the package explicitly link
      libpthread
    <gnu_srs> Package is libdbi-drivers, providing libdbd-sqlite3 needed by
      gnucash


# IRC, freenode, #hurd, 2014-02-17

    <braunr> hm ok, looks like iceweasel errors all have something to do with
      the libc dns resolver
    <braunr> http://darnassus.sceen.net/~rbraun/iceweasel_crash
    <braunr> apparently, it's simply because the memory chunk isn't page
      aligned ..
    <braunr> looks like not preloading libpthread tirggers lots of tricky
      issues
    <braunr> anyway, apparently, the malloc/free calls in libresolv don't use
      locks if libpthread isn't preloaded, which explains why the program state
      looked impossible to reach and why crashes look random
    <congzhang> debian linux does not have the pthread load problem.
    <braunr> congzhang: it had it
    <braunr> maybe not debian but i've found one such report for opensuse

    <braunr> ok the bug is simple
    <braunr> for some reason, our glibc still uses a global _res state for dns
      resolution instead of per thread ones
    <braunr> uh, apparently, it's libpthread's job to define a __res_state
      function for that :(

## IRC, freenode, #hurd, 2014-02-18

    <braunr> usually when i say it, it crashes soon after, so let's try it :
    <braunr> i've been running iceweasel 27 fine for like 10 minutes with a
      patched libpthread
    <braunr> still no crash ;p
    <braunr> with luck this extremely lightweight patch will fix all
      multithreaded applications doing concurrent name resolution .... :)
    <teythoon> nice :)
    <braunr> let's try gnash ....
    <braunr> uh, segfault on termination
    <braunr> gnash works :)
    <teythoon> sweet :)
    <braunr> i'm very surprised we could live so long with that resolv bug


## IRC, freenode, #hurd, 2014-02-19

    <braunr> youpi: the eglibc bug is about libresolv
    <braunr> it uses a global resolver state even in multithreaded applications
    <youpi> libresolv is a horrible part of glibc :)
    <braunr> which is obviously bad
    <braunr> yes .. :)
    <braunr> here is the patch :
      http://darnassus.sceen.net/~rbraun/0001-libpthread-per-thread-resolver-states.patch
    <braunr> it's very short, it basically allocates a resolver state per
      thread in the pthread struct, and sets the TLS variable __resp when the
      thread starts
    <braunr> should we make that hurd-specific ?
    <braunr> or enclose that assignment with #ifdef ENABLE_TLS ?
    <youpi> well, ENABLE_TLS is now always 1, iirc :)
    <braunr> for the hurd, yes
    <youpi> I'm surprised linux never had the issue
    <youpi> no, not for the hurd
    <braunr> ah
    <youpi> I *had* to implement TLS for hurd because it was always 1 for
      everybody :)
    <braunr> ok
    <braunr> so all those ifdefs could be removed and libpthread can assume tls
      is enabled
    <braunr> in which case my patch looks fine
    <youpi> ah, thats a libpthread patch, not glibc patch
    <braunr> yes
    <braunr> nptl obviously did that from the start . :)
    <braunr> linuxthreads had the problem a looong time ago
    <youpi> ok
    <braunr> i'm surprised we overlooked it for so long
    <braunr> but anyway, that's a good fix
    <youpi> indeed
    <youpi> it seems all good to me
    <braunr> well, __resp is a __thread variable
    <braunr> i could add #ifdef ENABLE_TLS, but then what of the case where TLS
      isn't enabled, and do we actually care ?
    <braunr> #error maybe ?
    <braunr> or #warning ?
    <youpi> I don't think we care about the non-TLS case any more
    <braunr> ok
    <braunr> topgit branch i suppose ?
    <youpi> well, not, hurd libpthread repo :)
    <braunr> oh right ... :)


# libthreads vs. libpthread

The same symptom appears in an odd case, for instance:

    buildd@hurd:~$ ldd /usr/bin/openjade
            libthreads.so.0.3 => /lib/libthreads.so.0.3 (0x0103d000)
            libosp.so.5 => /usr/lib/libosp.so.5 (0x01044000)
            libpthread.so.0.3 => /lib/libpthread.so.0.3 (0x01221000)
            libnsl.so.1 => /lib/i386-gnu/libnsl.so.1 (0x01232000)
    [...]

openjade links against *both* libthreads and libpthread. The result is that libc
early-initializes libthreads only, and thus libpthread is not early-initialized,
and later on raises assertions. The solution is to just get rid of libthreads,
to have only one threading library.
