[[!meta copyright="Copyright © 2011 Free Software Foundation, Inc."]]

[[!meta license="""[[!toggle id="license" text="GFDL 1.2+"]][[!toggleable
id="license" text="Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this
document under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.2 or
any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no Invariant
Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.  A copy of the license
is included in the section entitled [[GNU Free Documentation
License|/fdl]]."]]"""]]

Several issues here:

  * [[!tag open_issue_glibc open_issue_gnumach]] Even invalid `mmap` shoudn't
    crash the process.

  * [[!tag open_issue_documentation]] The memory layout example should be
    documented.

  * [[!tag open_issue_gnumach]] New `vm_map` allocation strategy may be
    desirable; see also [[placement_of_virtual_memory_regions]].

  * [[!tag open_issue_glibc]] *task X deallocating an invalid port Y, most
    probably a bug*.

IRC, freenode, #hurd, 2011-08-11

    < zyg> oh, mmap sigsegvs, strange.
    < braunr> hwo do you see that ?
    < zyg> braunr: I'll try to paste a minimal case
    < braunr> zyg: make sure you have a sane memory setup
    < braunr> 512 RAM / 1G swap seems good
    < braunr> have more swap than RAM
    < zyg> I have those. Still it shouldn't sigsegv.
    < braunr> gnumach is picky about that
    < braunr> and yes, the hurd shouldn't have bugs
    < zyg> braunr: ready to crash? #include <stdio.h> #include <sys/mman.h> int
      main (int argc, char **argv) { mmap(0x10000, 0x8000, PROT_READ, MAP_ANON
      | MAP_FIXED, -1, 0); return 0; }
    < braunr> a fixed mapping at such an address is likely to fail, yes
    < braunr> but a crash, hm
    < zyg> why should it fail?
    < braunr> because the hurd doesn't have a common text data bss heap stack
      layout
    < braunr> e.g. there are mappings below text, as show by vminfo :
    < braunr> $ vminfo $$
    < braunr>          0[0x1000] (prot=0)
    < braunr>     0x1000[0x21000] (prot=RX, max_prot=RWX, mem_obj=105)
    < braunr>    0x22000[0x1000] (prot=R, max_prot=RWX, mem_obj=105)
    < braunr>    0x23000[0x1000] (prot=RW, max_prot=RWX, mem_obj=105)
    < braunr>    0x24000[0x1000] (prot=0, max_prot=RWX)
    < braunr>    0x25000[0xfff000] (prot=RWX, mem_obj=106)
    < braunr>  0x1024000[0x1000] (prot=RWX, mem_obj=107)
    < braunr>  0x1025000[0x1000] (prot=RW, max_prot=RWX, mem_obj=108)
    < braunr>  0x1026000[0x1000] (prot=RW, max_prot=RWX, mem_obj=108,
      offs=0x1000)
    < braunr>  0x1027000[0x1000] (prot=RW, max_prot=RWX, mem_obj=109)
    < braunr>  0x1028000[0x2000] (prot=RW, max_prot=RWX, mem_obj=110,
      offs=0x1000)
    < braunr>  0x102a000[0x1000] (prot=RW, max_prot=RWX, mem_obj=111)
    < braunr> (sorry for the long paste)
    < zyg> oh.. my mmap falls into an occupied range?
    < braunr> seems so
    < zyg> thanks, that was really useful.
    < braunr> MAP_FIXED isn't portable, this is clearly stated in most man
      pages
    < zyg> yes, implementation specific it says
    < braunr> well the behaviour isn't specific, it's well defined, but the
      memory layout isn't
    < braunr> i personally think vm_map() should be slightly changed to include
      a new flag for top-down allocations
    < braunr> so that our stack and libraries are at high addresses, below the
      kernel
    < braunr> zyg: what kind of error do you get ? i don't get sigsegv
    < zyg> I get both sigsegv and sigill depending on addr
    < braunr> ok
    < braunr> i get sigill with your example
    < braunr> the error is the same (wrong memory access) but the behaviour
      changes because of the special memory configuration
    < zyg> yes.. I guess the usecase is too uncommon. Else mmap would have an
      guard
    < braunr> some accesses cause invalid page faults (which are sent as
      segmentation faults) while other cause general protection faults (which
      are sent as illegal instructions)
    < braunr> (this is quite weird since the GP fault is likely because the
      access targets something out of the data or code segment eh)
    < zyg> braunr: that's very os-specific. Do you mean hurd behaves that way?
    < braunr> gnumach
    < braunr> on i386
    < braunr> the segmant configuration isn't completely flat
    < braunr> segment*
    < braunr> hm nice
    < braunr> your small program triggers the "task X deallocating an invalid
      port Y, most probably a bug." message
    < zyg> where do you see that?
    < braunr> on the mach console
