[[!meta copyright="Copyright © 2010, 2011 Free Software Foundation, Inc."]]

[[!meta license="""[[!toggle id="license" text="GFDL 1.2+"]][[!toggleable
id="license" text="Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this
document under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.2 or
any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no Invariant
Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.  A copy of the license
is included in the section entitled [[GNU Free Documentation
License|/fdl]]."]]"""]]

[[!debbug 557771]]

# Bisecting

  * Good

      * 7:6.4.0.9.dfsg1-1 (2008-04-22) built from
        <http://snapshot.debian.net/package/imagemagick>
      * 6.4.0-11
      * 6.4.1-0
      * 6.4.1-1

  * Bad

      * 6.4.1-2
      * 6.4.1-5
      * 6.4.1-10
      * 6.4.2-10
      * 6.4.5-9
      * 6.4.8-0 / Debian 6.4.8.0-1
      * 6.5.5-3 / Debian 6.5.5.3-1
      * 6.5.8.3-1 from Debian unstable (also in testing)
      * Svn trunk (r848)


# 6.4.1-1 -> 6.4.1-2

    -CFLAGS = -g -O2 -Wall -W -pthread
    +CFLAGS = -fopenmp -g -O2 -Wall -W -pthread
    -GOMP_LIBS = 
    +GOMP_LIBS = -lgomp
    -LDFLAGS = -lfreetype -lz
    +LDFLAGS = -fopenmp -lfreetype -lz

Etc.

    +/usr/include/pthread.h:
    +
    +/usr/include/pthread/pthread.h:
    +
    +/usr/include/bits/spin-lock-inline.h:
    +
    +/usr/include/bits/cancelation.h:
    +
    +/usr/include/bits/pthread-np.h:
    +
    +/usr/lib/gcc/i486-gnu/4.4.2/include/omp.h:


# State as of 2011-03-06

freenode, #hurd channel, 2011-03-06:

    <pinotree> tschwinge: (speaking on working perl, how did it en with that
      "(glibc) double free" crash with perl?)
    <pinotree> *end
    <tschwinge> I think I remember I suspected it's a libgomp (!) issue in the
      end.  I have not yet continued working on that.
    <pinotree> libogmp? looks like you know more than me, then :)
    <youpi> tschwinge: oh, I'm interested
    <youpi> I know a bit about libgomp :)
    <tschwinge> I bisected this down to where Imagemagick added -fgomp (or
      whatever it is).  And then the perl library (Imagemagick.pm?) which loads
      the imagemagick.so segfaulted.
    <tschwinge> ImageMagick did this change in the middle of a x.x.x.something
      release..
    <tschwinge> My next step would have been to test whether libgomp works at
      all for us.
    <youpi> ./usr/sbin/debootstrap:DEBOOTSTRAP_CHECKSUM_FIELD="SHA$SHA_SIZE"
    <youpi> erf
    <youpi> so they switched to another checksum
    <youpi> but we don't have that one on all of our packages :)
    <youpi> tschwinge: 
    <youpi> buildd@bach:~$ OMP_NUM_THREADS=2 ./test
    <youpi> I'm 0x1
    <youpi> I'm 0x3
    <youpi> libgomp works at least a bit
    <tschwinge> OK.
    <pinotree> i guess we should hope the working bits don't stop at that point
      ;)
    <tschwinge> If open_issues/perlmagick is to be believed a diff of 6.4.1-1
      and 6.4.1-2 should tell what exactly was changed.
    <tschwinge> Oh!
    <tschwinge> I even have it on the page already!  ;-)
    <tschwinge> -fopenmp
    <youpi> I've tried the pragmas that imagemagick uses
    <youpi> they work
    <tschwinge> Might be the issue fixed itself?
    <youpi> I don't know, it's the latest libc here
    <youpi> (and latest hurd, to be uploaded)


# Other

[[!debbug 551017]]

Code in Svn: `+ 1` missing to account for both `/` and `\0`.
