[[!meta copyright="Copyright © 2010, 2011 Free Software Foundation, Inc."]]

[[!meta license="""[[!toggle id="license" text="GFDL 1.2+"]][[!toggleable
id="license" text="Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this
document under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.2 or
any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no Invariant
Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.  A copy of the license
is included in the section entitled [[GNU Free Documentation
License|/fdl]]."]]"""]]

[[!tag open_issue_hurd]]

IRC, unknown channel, unknown date.

    <grey_gandalf> I did a sudo date...
    <grey_gandalf> and the machine hangs

This was very likely a misdiagnosis:

IRC, freenode, #hurd, 2011-03-25:

    <tschwinge> antrik: I suspect it'S some timing stuff in pfinet that perhaps
      uses absolute time, and somehow wildely gets confused?
    <antrik> tschwinge: BTW, pfinet doesn't actually die I think -- it just
      drops open connections...
    <antrik> perhaps it thinks they timed out
    <tschwinge> antrik: Isn't the translator restarted instead?
    <antrik> don't think so
    <antrik> when pfinet actually dies, I also loose the NFS mounts, which
      doesn't happen in this case
    <antrik> hehe "... and the machine hangs"
    <antrik> he didn't bother to check that the machine is perfectly fine, only
      the SSH connection got dropped
    <tschwinge> Ah, I see.  So it'S perhaps indeed simply closes TCP
      connections that have been without data for ``too long''?
    <antrik> yeah, that's my guess
    <antrik> my clock is speeding, so ntpdate sets it in the past
    <antrik> perhaps there is some math that concludes the connection have been
      inactive for -200 seconds, which (unsigned) is more than any timeout :-)
    <tschwinge> (The other way round, you might likely get some integer
      wrap-around, and thus the same result.)
    <tschwinge> Yes.

IRC, freenode, #hurd, 2011-10-26:

    <antrik> anyways, when ntpdate adjusts to the past, the connections hang,
      roughly for the amount of time being adjusted
    <antrik> they do not die though
    <antrik> (well, if it's long enough, they probably timeout on the other
      side...)

IRC, freenode, #hurd, 2011-10-27:

    <antrik> oh, another interesting thing I observed is that the the subhurd
      pfinet did *not* drop the connection... only the main Hurd one. I thought
      the clock is system-wide?...
    <tschwinge> It is.
    <antrik> it's really fascinating that only the pfinet on the Hurd instance
      where I set the date is affected, and not the pfinet in the other
      instance
