[[!meta copyright="Copyright © 2011 Free Software Foundation, Inc."]]

[[!meta license="""[[!toggle id="license" text="GFDL 1.2+"]][[!toggleable
id="license" text="Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this
document under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.2 or
any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no Invariant
Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.  A copy of the license
is included in the section entitled [[GNU Free Documentation
License|/fdl]]."]]"""]]

[[!tag open_issue_glibc open_issue_hurd]]

[[!GNU_Savannah_bug 461]]

IRC, freenode, #hurd, 2011-04-20

    <svante_> I found a problem from 2002 by Marcus Brinkmann that I think is
      related to my problems: http://savannah.gnu.org/bugs/?461. He has a test
      file called pipetest.c that shows that SIGPIPE is not triggered reliably.
    <svante_> Cited from the bug report: The attached test program does not
      trigger SIGPIPE reliably, because closing the read end of the pipe
      happens asynchronously. The write can succeed because the read end might
      not have been closed yet.
    <svante_> I have debugged this program on both Hurd and Linux, and the
      problem in Hurd remains:-(
    <svante_> Anybody looked into the almost ten year old
      bug:http://savannah.gnu.org/bugs/?461 this one is definitely related to
      the build problems of e.g. ghc6 and ruby1.9.1. Should I mention this on
      the ML?
    <youpi> that could be it indeed
    <youpi> does th bug still happen?
    <azeem> depends on: new interface io_close
    <azeem> which depends on: POSIX record locking
    <svante_> youpi: Yes it does, I've tested the pipetest.c file submitted by
      Marcus B on both Linux and Hurd
    <azeem> that would've maybe been a nice GSOC task
    <youpi> azeem: err, the contrary for posix record locking, non ?
    <azeem> argh
    <azeem> why would POSIX record locking depend on this?
    <azeem> well anyway, then have POSIX record locking be a GSOC task :)
    <azeem> I wasn't aware that would also fix ruby and ghc building :)
    <youpi> http://permalink.gmane.org/gmane.os.hurd.devel.readers/265
    <youpi> (for io_close stuff)
    <youpi> http://comments.gmane.org/gmane.os.hurd.devel.readers/63 actually
    <azeem> I guess if they didn't implement it/agreed on something back then
      it'd be quite hard to do it now
    <svante_> azeem: marcus recently showed up here. Maybe he can help out/has
      ideas?
    <azeem> well yeah
    <azeem> but marcus was the junior guy back then
    <azeem> <marcus> but it's a very hurdish solution (ie, complex, buggy, and
      not implemented)
    <azeem> maybe we can go for something simpler
    <youpi> azeem: what is this quote about?
    <azeem> don't remember
    <azeem> not io_close I'd say

2011-04-21

    <antrik> svante_: why do you think the problem you see in ruby and ghc is
      related to async close() ?

2011-04-22

    <svante_> Well: the test case I'm running on ruby is giving me an EBADF
      after 8 successful loops, and tracing within eglibc points towards
      __mutex_lock_solid or __spin_lock,  __spin_lock_solid from
      mach/lock-intern.h from cthreads.

2011-04-23

    <antrik> srs1: yeah, I saw it... but I still wonder what makes you think
      this is related to async FD closing?
    <srs1> antrik: Every test case showing the problems are related to fd.h and
      the functions there, especially the ones used in the function:
      _HURD_FD_H_EXTERN_INLINE struct hurd_fd *_hurd_fd_get (int fd) and so is
      the pipetest from Marcus too.
    <srs1> I have not yet been able to trace further with gdb since most
      variables are optimized out and adding print statements does not work, at
      least not yet. Now I'm trying to build eglibc with -O1 to see if the
      optimized out variables are there or not.
    <youpi> srs1: he means the ghc6 issue
    <youpi> (and the ruby issue)
    <srs1> youpi: Yes, the ghc6 and ruby ends at the functions I mentioned in
      fd,h 
    <srs1> Both ghc6 and ruby programs are writing to a file when the error
      happens. If they are using a pipeline or not I don't know yet, I think it
      is a regular file write.
    <srs1> I can send your the ruby program if you like: It is a c-file so
      debugging is possible. ghc6 is worse, since that program cannot be
      debugged directly with gdb. 
    <antrik> pipetest also results in the program hanging in locking stuff?...
    <srs1> pipetest does not hang, but gives no output as it should. Running it
      in gdb with single stepping shows the correct behavior, but then gdb
      hangs if I try to single stepping further, continue at the right place
      works!
    <antrik> I haven't looked at the pipetest program. do you have the link
      handy?
    <antrik> never mind, got it
    <antrik> srs1: that sounds like a GDB problem...
    <youpi> most probably, yes
    <youpi> (and I've always seen issues like this in gdb on hurd)
    <antrik> actually I think it's expected... the RPC handling code has some
      explicit GDB hooks AIUI; trying to single-step into this code is probably
      expected to wreck havoc...
    <youpi> well, it should have some sane behavior
    <youpi> even if it's "skip to next point where it's debuggable"
    <antrik> srs1: note that there is no BADF involved in the pipetest AIUI...

2011-04-28

    <antrik> what is the actual problem you are seeing BTW?
    <gnu_srs1> antrik: in ruby the problem is: Exception `IOError' at
      tool/mkconfig.rb:12 - closed stream
    <gnu_srs1> Triggered by ruby:io.c:internal_read_func() calling
      sysdeps/mach/hurd/read.c returning a negative number of bytes read. 
    <abeaumont> gnu_srs1: why do you think that error is locking related?
    <gnu_srs1> This happens after 8 iterations of the read loop with 8192 bytes
      read each time.
    <abeaumont> but that doesn't involve locking at all, does it?
    <gnu_srs1> I think it is, if there is a pipepline set up??
    <gnu_srs1> Also the ghc6 hang ends up in hangs in sysdeps/mach/hurd/read.c
      traced into fd.h where all things happen (including setting locks and
      mutexes)
    <braunr> what locking ?
    <braunr> stdio locking is different from file locking
    <braunr> and a pipe doesn't imply file locking at all
    <abeaumont> read may block on pipes, but it's unrelated to flock
    <gnu_srs1> Look into the file fd.h, maybe you can describe things
      better. I'm not fluent in this stuff.
    <gnu_srs1> Has a pipe has a file descriptor associated to it? What about a
      file read/write?
    <abeaumont> a pipe provides 2 file descriptors, one for reading and another
      one for writting
    <abeaumont> i may give a look at that if i manage to build glibc
      succesfully...
    <gnu_srs1> Take a look at the realevant code from fd.h:
      http://pastebin.com/kesBpjy4
    <abeaumont> the ruby error happens just trying to build ruby1.9?
    <abeaumont> gnu_srs1: from what you said, the error occurs while reading,
      so i don't see how it can be related to that code
    <abeaumont> you already got a descriptor if you're reading from it
    <gnu_srs1> I have not tried anything else than ruby1.9.1. I can send you
      the ruby debug setup and files if you are interested.
    <abeaumont> gnu_srs1: ok, i'll try to build ruby1.9.1 later... let's see if
      i can build glibc first
    <gnu_srs1>  abeaumont: well, the read suddenly returns -1 bytes read,
      resulting in a file descriptor of -1 (instead of +3).
    <abeaumont> gnu_srs1: i see
    <antrik> gnu_srs1: are you sure the hang really happens in _hurd_fd_get()?
      could you give us a backtrace?
    <antrik> gnu_srs1: there are many reasons why read() can return -1; errno
      should indicate the reason. unfortunately, I can't make much out of
      ruby's "translation" of the error :-)
    <gnu_srs1> antrik: In the ruby case there is no hang: The steam is closed
      by read() giving an error code !=0. This triggers things in the ruby
      code:  A negative number of bytes read and a negative fd results, and an
      error error is triggered in the ruby code.
    <gnu_srs1> antrik: See http://pastebin.com/eZmaZQJr
    <antrik> gnu_srs1: yes, this all sounds perfectly right. the question is
      *why* read() returns an error code. we'd need to know what error it is
      exactly, and in what situation it occurs. tracing the libc code is not at
      all useful here
    <antrik> uhm... 1073741833 is errno?...
    <gnu_srs1> BTW: I think the error code is EBADF (badfile descriptor?). The
      integer version of it is 1073741833, see the pastebin i linked to.
    <antrik> you could use perror() to get something more readable :-)
    <antrik> or error() with the right arguments
    <gnu_srs1> I used integer when printing, but looking into fd.h I think it
      is EBADF  (I did get this result once in gdb)
    <antrik> fd.h won't tell you anything. most error codes are generated by
      the server, not by libc
    <antrik> BADF might be generated in libc when ruby tries to read on FD -1
    <antrik> (no idea why it tries to do that... perhaps there is actually
      something wrong/stupid in ruby's error handling)
    <gnu_srs1> Well I single-stepped in fd.h using gdb and printing err gave
      EBADf. err is declared as: error_t err in read.c
    <antrik> at which point did you single-step? while fd was still 3?
    <gnu_srs1> I don't think the problem is in ruby, it is in mach/hurd!
      Similar problems with ghc, python-apt, etc
    <gnu_srs1> Yes, fd=3 was not changed. I cannot trace into fd.h from
      read.c. That is the problem with all cases! Need to leave for a while
      now.
    <antrik> sorry, I don't see *anything* similar in the ghc failure.
    <antrik> I don't know about python-apt
    <antrik> for the ghc case, I'd like to see a GDB backtrace from the point
      where it is hanging
    <antrik> just to be clear: anything I/O-related will involve fd.h
      somewhere. that doesn't in any way indicate the problems are related. in
      fact the symptoms you described are very different, and I'm pretty
      certain these are completely different issues
    <gnu_srs1> antrik: Here is a backtrace,
      http://pastebin.com/wvCiXFjB. Numbers 6,7,8 are from the calling Haskell
      functions. They cannot be debugged by gdb. Nice to see that somebody is
      showing interest at last:-/
    <antrik> hm... I wonder whether the _hurd_intr_rpc_msg_in_trap is a result
      of the ^C?
    <antrik> if so, it seems to be a "normal" bloking read() operation. so
      again probably not related to libc code at all
    <gnu_srs1> Where is this blocking read() code located mach/hurd?
    <antrik> io_read() is implemented by whatever server handles the FD in
      question
    <antrik> I guess rpctrace will be more helpful here than GDB... to see what
      the program is trying to do here
    <gnu_srs1> Why don't I get there with gdb?
    <antrik> err... the server is a different process
    <antrik> you are only tracing the client code
    <gnu_srs1> OK, here is a rpctrace for ruby:
      http://pastebin.com/sdPiKGBW.Nice programs you have, no manual pages, and
      the program hang
    <gnu_srs1> s/http://pastebin.com/sdPiKGBW.Nice
      /http://pastebin.com/sdPiKGBW. BTW: Nice/ 
    <gnu_srs1> antrik: Do you want the rpctrace of the ghc hang too? If that is
      the case, do you need the whole file. From the ruby case the last part
      looked most interesting:
      libpthread/sysdeps/generic/pt-mutex-timedlock.c: assert (mutex->owner !=
      self);
    <antrik> gnu_srs1: hm... you get that assertion only with rpctrace? guess
      it doesn't work properly then :-(
    <gnu_srs1> Is it visible on the client side?
    <antrik> gnu_srs1: that assertion *is* from the client side. I'm just
      surprised that apparently it's only triggered when you run it in rpctrace
    <antrik> how did you invoke rpctrace?
    <gnu_srs1> rpctrace "command with options" > rpctrace.out 2>&1
    <antrik> well, I'd like to know the "command with options" part :-)
    <gnu_srs1> OK: for ruby: ./miniruby ./ tool/mkconfig.rb as before.
    <antrik> OK, so it just runs the ruby interpreter and no other processes
    <gnu_srs1> No other processes involved!
    <abeaumont> gnu_srs1: i can reproduce the ruby error, no let's dig in it :D
    <antrik> gnu_srs1: rpctrace for ghc could be useful too... but if it's too
      long, pasting only the last bit might suffice
    <gnu_srs1> antrik: OK, will do that. Do you find anything interesting?
    <gnu_srs1>  abeaumont: Using gdb: gdb ./miniruby; (gdb) break io.c:569; c8;
      break fd.h:72 or break read.c:27 and you are there. Beware of gdb
      hanging, so you need another terminal to kill -9 gdb (sometimes a reboot
      is needed :-(
    <antrik> gnu_srs1: no, the ruby rpctrace is useless; apparently rpctrace
      makes it break before reaching the relevant part :-(
    <abeaumont> thanks gnu_srs1 
    <gnu_srs1> antrik: Hope for better luck with ghc:
      http://pastebin.com/dgcrA05t
    <antrik> hm... it hangs at proc_dostop() again... whatever that means

2011-05-07

    <gnu_srs> One question about ruby: I know where the problems occur in ruby
      code. Can I switch to the kernel thread just before in gdb to single step
      from there?
    <youpi> you can put a breakpoint, can't you?
    <antrik> gnu_srs: kernel thread?
    <gnu_srs> Yes, but will single stepping from there lead me to the Hurd
      code. I have not succeeded to do that yet!
    <youpi> you mean the translator code?
    <gnu_srs> Well, Roland did call it the signal thread, there are at least
      two threads per process, a signal thread and a main (user) thread.
    <youpi> then it's a thread in gdb
    <youpi> just use the thread gdb commands to access it
    <gnu_srs> I do find two threads in gdb, yes. But following only the user
      thread does not lead me to the cause of the problems.
    <gnu_srs> And following the other (signal thread) has not been successful
      so far.
    <youpi> multithreading debugging in gdb is painful yes
    <youpi> single-step isn't really an option in it
    <antrik> gnu_srs: well, as I said before, the cause is probably not in the
      libc code anyways. it would be much more relevant to find out what the FD
      in question is, and what "special" thing Ruby does to it to trigger the
      problematic behaviour...
    <youpi> it's simpler to put printfs etc.
    <antrik> youpi: well, printf doesn't work in the FD code :-)
    <youpi> you can make it work
    <youpi> open /dev/mem, write to 0xb8000
    <youpi> I'm not even joking
    <gnu_srs> I have printfs in the ruby code. And at some parts in eglibc (but
      it is not possible to put them at all places I want, as mentioned before)
    <antrik> sure, there are ways to debug this code too... but I don't think
      it's useful. so far there is no indication that this will help finding
      the actual issue
    <gnu_srs> The problem is not file descriptors. It is that an ongoing read
      suddenly returns -1 bytes read. And then the ruby code assigns a negative
      file descriptor in the exception handling.
    <youpi> a *read* ?
    <youpi> with errno == 0 ?
    <gnu_srs> Yes, a read!
    <youpi> how ruby comes to assigning a negative fd from that?
    <youpi> does it somehow close the fd?
    <gnu_srs> The errno reported from the read is EBADF!
    <youpi> did you try to rpctrace it?
    <gnu_srs> I don't bother too much about ruby exception handling. The error
      has already happened in the read operation. And that lead me to eglibc
      code.... and so on...
    <youpi> do you know what kind of file this fd was supposed to be on?
    <youpi> sure, that's debugging
    <gnu_srs> Yes I did rpctrace, but that was not successful. rpctrace just
      hang! Buggy code?
    <antrik> youpi: I assume that's Ruby's way to indicate that the FD is not
      valid anymore, after the previous error
    <youpi> does the program fork?
    <youpi> antrik: possibly
    <youpi> rpctrace has known issues, yes
    <youpi> gnu_srs: did you trace close()s by hand with printfs?
    <gnu_srs> Ho w to find out if it forks?
    <youpi> what does rpctrace stop on ?
    <gnu_srs> Well, I don't remember. Antrik?
    <antrik> proc_dostop() IIRC
    <antrik> or something like that
    <gnu_srs> I did not find any close() statements in the code I debugged.
    <youpi> ok, proc_dostop() is typically a sign of fork()
    <youpi> gnu_srs: that doesn't necessarily mean it's not called
    <antrik> gnu_srs: I think his point is that something else might close the
      FD, causing the error you see
    <youpi> anything can happen in the wild :)
    <antrik> gnu_srs: as I said before, the next step is to find out what this
      FD is, and what happens to it...
    <gnu_srs> antrik: Any ideas how to find out?
    <youpi> what is the backtrace?
    <gnu_srs> Well I know the fd number, it is either 3 or 5 in my tests. Does
      the number matter?
    <youpi> yes, it's not std{in,out,err}
    <gnu_srs> How to get a backtrace of a program that does not hang?
    <youpi> make it hang at the point of failure
    <youpi> when read returns -1
    <youpi> so you know who did the read
    <gnu_srs> I have to run the loop several times before the number of bytes
      read is -1.
    <youpi> you mean running the program several times ?
    <youpi> or just let the loop continue for some time?
    <pinotree> if it's the latter, you can add breakpoints with conditions
    <gnu_srs> No the read loop runs for 7 iterations, and fails the 8th time!
    <youpi> then make it hang when read() returns -1
    <Mr_Spock> could you paste your code somewhere?
    <youpi> when debugging, you're allowed to do all kinds of ugly things, you
      know ;)
    <gnu_srs> OK, I'll try that.
    <gnu_srs> MR_Spock: The easiest way would be to try to build
      ruby1.9.1. Then I can help you from where it fails. 
    <gnu_srs> pinotree: How to give a breakpoint with a condition?
    <pinotree> break where if condition
    <youpi> see help break
    <youpi> oh, there's even a thread condition nowadays, good
    <gnu_srs> Thanks for the discussion. I have to get into the real world for
      a while now. To be continued.
    <antrik> gnu_srs: well, if you already know that the loop runs several
      times before the error occurs, you apparently already looked at the
      higher-level code that is relevant here...
    <youpi> but it may be generic code, and not tell what calls it
