[[!meta copyright="Copyright © 2002, 2003, 2004, 2005, 2006, 2007, 2008, 2009,
2013, 2014 Free Software Foundation, Inc."]]

[[!meta license="""[[!toggle id="license" text="GFDL 1.2+"]][[!toggleable
id="license" text="Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this
document under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.2 or
any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no Invariant
Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.  A copy of the license
is included in the section entitled [[GNU Free Documentation
License|/fdl]]."]]"""]]

[[!tag open_issue_hurd]]

This todo is primarily targetted at the Hurd proper
and applications that rely on the Hurd interfaces.

* psmisc

The tools provided by the psmisc package are linux centric. Killall and pstree, for instance, require Linux's proc file system but could just as easily use Hurd's libps.

* tmpfs
* ppp
* unionfs/stowfs
* supermount translator

From Marcus, 2002:

* xkb driver for console (for international users)
* kbd leds in console (well, in general, Roland's new driver in oskit for that crap)
* fixing tmpfs (it's buggy, Neal says it's Mach's fault)
* adding posix shared memory (requires the io\_close call to be implemented)
* adding posix file locking (requires the io\_close call to be implemented)
* testing
  * find + various filesystems (are inode numbers for . and .. sane?)
  * ext2fs with other block sizes than 4096
  * --help and --version and --usage in all programs
    * I have seen ^V in some --help output, might be argp bug
    * Verify that all options are documented clearly, and that no unimplemented options appear
    * Is the short and long description in the help output correct?
  * Is the return value of all programs correct (eg, does main() return a sane value)
  * Is the suid bit correctly set for all installed programs?
  * Translators
    * Does settrans -g work? -fg?
    * Does stat() work on all translated nodes and give proper data?
    * What about chown, chmod (some translators should pass this through to the underlying node, esp in /dev!)
    * Does statfs give correct data?
    * Are all inode numbers and link counts correct?
* We also should have a "make check" test suite. We can add this once Jeff finished his automake patches
* pick up the other things
  * new console is basically done
    * needs integration of course
    * X switching support
* there is certainly more to do ...

Wolfgang list of [Easy tasks](http://mail.gnu.org/pipermail/help-hurd/2002-July/006413.html) on July 28, 2002:

<table border="1" cellpadding="1" cellspacing="0">
  <tr>
    <th bgcolor="#99CCCC"><strong>Difficulty</strong></th>
    <th bgcolor="#99CCCC"><strong>Task</strong></th>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td> 0 </td>
    <td> Check if all programs handle options (at least --help, --version and --usage; don't forget about the shell scripts) </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td> 1 </td>
    <td> Check if all translators respond to "settrans -g" </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td> 1 </td>
    <td> More tests of this kind </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td> 2 </td>
    <td> Fix those of the above who don't work as intended </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td> 2 </td>
    <td> Document (in doc/hurd.texi) all undocumented programs (translators as well as programs in utils/ and sutils/ and some others) </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td> 1 </td>
    <td> Find a POSIX test suite, run it on GNU/Hurd, report the results </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td> 1 </td>
    <td> Find more useful test suites to run </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td> 3 </td>
    <td> Update INSTALL-cross </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td> 2 </td>
    <td> Check if all the store classes in libstore work (we have many of them, look into the Makefile) </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td> 4 </td>
    <td> Fix those who don't work </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td> 2 </td>
    <td> Document all still undocumented store classes </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td> 2 </td>
    <td> The console is pretty new code, it told me it wants to get tested </td>
  </tr>
</table>

Where difficulty 0 means trivial and 4 means tricky; the difficulty has nothing to do with the importance.
