[[!meta copyright="Copyright © 2012, 2013, 2015 Free Software Foundation,
Inc."]]

[[!meta license="""[[!toggle id="license" text="GFDL 1.2+"]][[!toggleable
id="license" text="Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this
document under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.2 or
any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no Invariant
Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.  A copy of the license
is included in the section entitled [[GNU Free Documentation
License|/fdl]]."]]"""]]

[[!tag open_issue_glibc open_issue_gnumach open_issue_hurd open_issue_mig]]


# IRC, freenode, #hurd, 2012-07-04

    <braunr> we should perhaps build the hurd with -fno-strict-aliasing,
      considering the number of warnings i can see during the build :/
    <pinotree> braunr: wouldn't be better to "just" fix the mig-generated stubs
      instead?
    <braunr> pinotree: if we can rely on gcc for the warnings, yes
    <braunr> but i suspect there might be other silent issues in very old code


# IRC, freenode, #hurd, 2012-07-12

    <braunr> btw, i'm building glibc right now, and i can see a few strict
      aliasing warnings
    <braunr> fixing them will allow us to avoid wasting time on very obscure
      issues (if gcc catches them all)
    <tschwinge> The strict aliasing things should be fixed, yes.  Some might be
      from MIG.


# IRC, freenode, #hurd, 2013-10-17

    <braunr> we should build gnumach and the hurd with -fno-strict-aliasing
    <pinotree> aren't the mig-generated stubs the only issues related to that?
    <braunr> no
    <teythoon> b/c we often have pointers of different type pointing to the
      same address? for example code using libports?
    <braunr> the old linux code, including pfinet, and even the hurd libraries,
      use techniques that assume aliasing
    <braunr> exactly
    <teythoon> right, I agree


# 2015-10-30

Noticed that there are no `warning: dereferencing type-punned pointer will
break strict-aliasing rules [-Wstrict-aliasing]` diagnostics when compiling a
[[GDB|binutils]] build's MIG-generated stub files.
