[[!meta copyright="Copyright © 2010, 2011 Free Software Foundation, Inc."]]

[[!meta license="""[[!toggle id="license" text="GFDL 1.2+"]][[!toggleable
id="license" text="Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this
document under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.2 or
any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no Invariant
Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.  A copy of the license
is included in the section entitled [[GNU Free Documentation
License|/fdl]]."]]"""]]

[[!tag open_issue_porting]]

  * <http://www.freedesktop.org/wiki/Software/systemd>

  * <http://0pointer.de/blog/projects/systemd.html>,
    <http://0pointer.de/blog/projects/systemd-update.html>

  * <http://lwn.net/Articles/389149/>

Will need to have something like Linux'
[*cgroups*](http://git.kernel.org/gitweb.cgi?p=linux/kernel/git/torvalds/linux-2.6.git;a=blob;f=Documentation/cgroups/cgroups.txt;hb=HEAD).
Introduction: [*Ressourcen-Verwaltung mit Control Groups (cgroups)*
(german)](http://www.pro-linux.de/artikel/2/1464/ressourcen-verwaltung-mit-control-groups-cgroups.html),
Daniel Gollub, Stefan Seyfried, 2010-10-14.

Likely there's also some other porting needed.


# IRC, OFTC, #debian-hurd, 2011-05-19

    <pinotree> pochu: http://news.gmane.org/gmane.comp.gnome.desktop - the
      "systemd as dependency" and all the messages in it don't give me a bright
      future for gnome on hurd...
    <pochu> yeah, I've read the thread
    <pochu> it's only a proposal so far... hopefully it'll be rejected, or they
      will only accept the interfaces that other OSes can implement...
    <pochu> we'll see
    <pinotree> you can always help me with kde on hurd, would be nice ;)
    <pochu> hehe
    <pinotree> pochu: well, even if the depenency is rejected, the whole «don't
      give a damn about non-linux and only bless linux for the "gnome os"» is a
      bit... worrying attitude
    <pochu> yeah... it doesn't come from all the community though
    <pochu> I'm sure some people have always thought that way
    <tschwinge> Or we could get systemd going?  :-)
    <pochu> good luck with that :p
    <guillem> tschwinge: haha!? :)
    <tschwinge> That bad?
    <guillem> tschwinge: if you mean by that forking indefinitely then maybe
    <guillem> tschwinge: upstream has expressely stated multiple times, no
      interest whatsoever in any kind of portability to anything non-Linux
    <guillem> or even older Linux versions!
    <guillem> to the point of rejecting patches, because they "clutter" the
      source code...
    <tschwinge> Well, then let's ``just'' implement the Linux interfaces.  :-)
    <guillem> tschwinge: then you'll be always playing catch up
    <guillem> tschwinge: for example several of the Linux-only things upstream
      makes heavy use of, are pretty recent Linux-only additions to the kernel,
      but equivalents have been present on FreeBSD for years
    <tschwinge> Yeah.  I'm half-serious, half-joking.
    <tschwinge> I haven't looked at the systemd code at all.
    <guillem>
      https://mail.gnome.org/archives/desktop-devel-list/2011-May/msg00447.html
      for a list of its dependencies
    <guillem> some are just glibc extensions though
    <guillem> and some are IMO optional and should be conditionalized, but...
    <guillem> pochu: I don't think that attitude is that old, there was a time
      when Linux was not used widely, or even that functional, I think it has
      been taking strength since the Linux Plumbers Cartel started :)
    <guillem> as in one thing is not caring about anything non-Linux, the other
      is outright rejecting portability fixes
    <guillem> tschwinge: in any case, these "recent" events are "pissing me
      off" to the point of having considered several times implementing
      portable replacements for some of those Utopia projects, the problem as
      always is time though :)
    <guillem> tschwinge: and the issue is not only with systemd, upstart's
      upstream has the same approach to portability, if you want to port it,
      you'll have to maintain a fork
    <pochu> let's create our own init system, make it better than anyone else,
      and when people start switching to it, let's start using hurd-only APIs
      :)
    <tschwinge> We already had someone work on that.  Like ten years ago.  DMD.
      Daemon Managing Daemons.  <http://directory.fsf.org/project/DMD/>
    <guillem> the real problem with that attitude is not the lack of care for
      portabilty, the real problem is that these people are pushing for their
      stuff all over the stack, and most of the time deprecating their own
      stuff after a while when they have rewritten it from scratch, leaving the
      burden of maintaining the old stuff to the other ports
    <guillem> witness HAL, ConsoleKit, etc etc
    <guillem> (anyway enough ranting I guess :)
    <tschwinge> Yeah, it's true, though.
    <pochu> agreed
