[[!meta copyright="Copyright © 2018 Free Software Foundation, Inc."]]

[[!meta license="""[[!toggle id="license" text="GFDL 1.2+"]][[!toggleable
id="license" text="Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this
document under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.2 or
any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no Invariant
Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.  A copy of the license
is included in the section entitled [[GNU Free Documentation
License|/fdl]]."]]"""]]

HERE STARTS YOUR NEW CONTENT -- remove everything from here on, including this
line.

By creating this page, you agree to assign copyright for your contribution to
the Free Software Foundation, <http://www.fsf.org/>.  The Free Software
Foundation promises to always use a free documentation license (as per our
criteria of free documentation) when publishing your contribution.  We grant
you back all your rights under copyright, including the rights to copy, modify,
and redistribute your contributions.

We're requiring these copyright assignments, so that we'll easily be able to
include your contributions in official GNU documentation, such as the GNU Hurd
Reference Manual, etc.  Send email to <hurd-maintainers@gnu.org> if there are
questions.


As you're creating a new open issue page, please supply some suitable tags
(like \[[!tag open_issue_porting]], or \[[!tag open_issue_hurd
open_issue_mig]], etc.; remove the backslash, of course) to make sure that your
report shows up on the relevant lists of open issues.  Select *Preview* on this
page to see all tags that are currently in active use.

[[!inline pages=tag raw=yes feeds=no]]
