[[!meta copyright="Copyright © 2002, 2007, 2008, 2010, 2011, 2012 Free Software
Foundation, Inc."]]

[[!meta license="""[[!toggle id="license" text="GFDL 1.2+"]][[!toggleable
id="license" text="Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this
document under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.2 or
any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no Invariant
Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.  A copy of the license
is included in the section entitled [[GNU Free Documentation
License|/fdl]]."]]"""]]

Mach provides a so-called *external pager [[mechanism]]*.  This
mechanism serves to separate *managing memory* from *managing
content*.  Mach does the former while user-space processes do the
latter.

[[!tag open_issue_documentation]] <!-- Should probably refer to {{$mach#vm}}.
-->


# Introduction

In Mach, a [[task]]'s [[virtual_address_space]] consists of references to
[[memory_object]]s.

To associate a memory object with a portion of a task's address space,
[[`vm_map`|interface/vm_map]] is invoked on a capability designating
the task and passing a reference to the memory object
and the offset at which to install it.  (The first time
a task maps an object, Mach sends an initialization message
to the server including a control capability, which it uses
to supply pages to the kernel.)  This is essentially
the same as mapping a file into an address space on [[UNIX]]
using `mmap`.

When a task [[faults|page_fault]], Mach checks to see if there is a memory
object associated with the fault address.  If not, the task
is sent an [[exception]], which is normally further propagated
as a segmentation fault.  If there is an associated memory
object, Mach checks whether the corresponding [[page]] is in core.
If it is, it installs the page and resumes the task.  Mach
then invokes the memory object with the `memory_object_request`
method and the page to read.  The memory manager then fetches
or creates the content as appropriate and supplies it to
Mach using the `memory_object_supply` method.


# Creating and Mapping a Memory Object

The following illustrates the basic idea:

                           ________
                          /        \
                         |   Mach   |
                          \________/
                     /| /           |\  \
        (C) vm_map  /  / m_o_ready (E)\  \ (D) memory_object_init
                   / |/ (F) return     \  \|
                ________              ________
               /        \   ----->   /        \
              |  Client  | (A) open |  Server  |
               \________/   <-----   \________/
                     (B) memory_object

(A) The client sends an `open` [[RPC]] to the server.

(B) The server creates a memory object (i.e., a port receive right), adds
it to the port set that it is listening on and returns a capability (a port
send right) to the client.

(C) The client attempts to map the object into its address space using
the [[`vm_map`|interface/vm_map]] RPC.  It passes a reference to the port that
the server gave it to the vm server (typically Mach).

(D) Since Mach has never seen the object before, it queues a
`memory_object_init` on the given port along with a send right (the
memory control port) for the manager to use to send messages to the
kernel and also as an authentication mechanism for future
interactions: the port is supplied so that the manager will be able to
identify from which kernel a given `memory_object_*` IPC is from.

(E) The server dequeues the message, initializes internal data
structures to manage the mapping and then invokes the
`memory_object_ready` method on the control object.

(F) The kernel sees that the manager is ready, sets up the appropriate
mappings in the client's address space and then replies to the
[[`vm_map`|interface/vm_map]] RPC indicating success.

There is nothing stopping others from playing *the kernel*.  This is
not a security problem: clients must [[trust]] the server from whom they
obtain memory objects and also the servers with whom they share
the object.  Multiple memory managers are a reality that should be
dealt with gracefully: they are useful for network transparent
mappings etc.


# Resolving Page Faults

      (G) Client      ________
          resumed    /        \
                    |   Mach   |
     (A) Fault +----|------+   |  \ (B) m_o_request  (C) store_read
           ____|___  \_____|__/ |\  \| ________         _________  
          /    +---\-------+       \  /        \       /         \ 
         |  Client  |          (F)   |  Server  |<===>|  storeio  |
          \________/       m_o_supply \________/       \_________/ 
                                          (E) return data  | ^
                                                           | | (D) device_read 
                                                           v |
                                                         ________
                                                        / Device \
                                                       |  Driver  |
                                                        \________/
                                                           | ^
                                                           | |
                                                           v
                                                      ____________
                                                     /  Hardware  \

(A) The client does a memory access and [[faults|page_fault]].  The kernel catches
the fault and maps the address to the appropriate memory object.  It
then invokes the `memory_object_request` method on the associated
capability.  (In addition to the page to supply, it also supplies the
control port so that the server can determine which kernel
sent the message.)

(B) The manager dequeues the message.  On the [[Hurd]], this is translated
into a `store_read`: a function in the [[hurd/libstore]] library which is used to
transparently manage block devices.  The [[hurd/storeio]] server starts off as
a separate process, however, if the server has the appropriate
permission, the backing object can be contacted directly by the
server.  This layer of indirection is desirable when, for instance, a
storeio running as root may want to only permit read only access to a
resource, yet it cannot safely transfer its handle to the client.  In
this case, it would proxy the requests.

(C) The storeio server contacts, for instance, a [[device_driver]] to do
the read.  This could also be a network block device (the NBD server
in GNU/Linux), a file, a memory object, etc.

(D) The device driver allocates an [[anonymous_page]] from the
[[default_pager]] and reads the data into it.  Once all of the operations are
complete, the device returns the data to the client unmapping it from
its own address space at the same time.

(E) The storeio server transfers the page to the server.  The page is still
anonymous.

(F) The manager does a `memory_object_supply` transferring the page to
the kernel.  Only now is the page not considered to be anonymous but
managed.

(G) The kernel caches the page, installs it in the client's virtual
[[address_space]] and finally, resumes the client.


# Paging Data Out

              Change manager   Pager m_o_return    store_write
       \      _________  (B)  __(A)__   (C)  ________  (D)  _______
     S  |    / Default \     /        \     /        \     /       \ 
     W  |<=>|   Pager   |<=>|   Mach   |==>|  server  |<=>| storeio |<=>
     A  |    \_________/     \________/     \________/     \_______/
     P  |
       /

(A) The [[paging]] [[policy]] is implemented by Mach: servers just implement
the [[mechanism]].

(B) Once the kernel has selected a page that it would like to evict, it
changes the manager from the server to the default pager.  This way,
if the server does not deallocate the page quickly enough, it cannot
cause a denial of service: the kernel will just later double page it
to swap (the default pager is part of the [[tcb]]).

(C) Mach then invokes `memory_object_return` <!-- doesn't exist --> method on the control
object.  The server is expected to save the page free <!-- ? --> it in a timely
fashion.  The server is not required to send a response to the kernel.

(D) The manager then transfers the data to the storeio server which
eventually sends it to disk.  The device driver consumes the memory
doing the equivalent of a `vm_deallocate`.


# Issues

  * [[open_issues/performance/io_system/read-ahead]]

  * [[service_solahart_jakarta_selatan__082122541663/performance/io_system/clustered_page_faults]]


# GNU Hurd Usage

Read about the [[Hurd's I/O path|hurd/io_path]].
