[[!meta copyright="Copyright © 2013 Free Software Foundation, Inc."]]

[[!meta license="""[[!toggle id="license" text="GFDL 1.2+"]][[!toggleable
id="license" text="Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this
document under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.2 or
any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no Invariant
Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.  A copy of the license
is included in the section entitled [[GNU Free Documentation
License|/fdl]]."]]"""]]

[[!taglink open_issue_documentation]]: update [[sound]] page.


# IRC, freenode, #hurd, 2013-09-01

    <rekado> I'm new to the hurd but I'd love to learn enough to work on sound
      support.
    <rekado>
      http://darnassus.sceen.net/~hurd-web/community/gsoc/project_ideas/sound/
      says drivers should be ported to GNU Mach as a first step.
    <rekado> Is this information still current or should the existing Linux
      driver be wrapped with DDE instead?
    <auronandace> if i recall correctly dde is currently only being used for
      network drivers. i'm not sure how much work would be involved for sound
      or usb


## IRC, freenode, #hurd, 2013-09-02

    <rekado> The sound support proposal
      (http://darnassus.sceen.net/~hurd-web/community/gsoc/project_ideas/sound/)
      recommends porting some other kernel's sound driver to GNU Mach.  Is this
      still current or should DDE be used instead?
    <pinotree> rekado: dde or anything userspace-based is generally preferred
    <braunr> rekado: both are about porting some other kernel's sound driver
    <braunr> dde is preferred yes
    <rekado> This email says that sound drivers are already partly working with
      DDE: http://os.inf.tu-dresden.de/pipermail/l4-hackers/2009/004291.html
    <rekado> So, should I just try to get some ALSA kernel parts to compile
      with DDE?
    <pinotree> well, what is missing is also the dde←→hurd glue
    <braunr> rekado: there is also a problem with pci arbitration
    <rekado> pinotree: I assumed DDEKit works with the hurd and we could use
      any DDE/<other kernel> glue code with it
    * rekado looks up pci arbitration
    <pinotree> only for networking atm
    <rekado> ah, I see.
