[[license text="""
Copyright © 2007 Free Software Foundation, Inc.

Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document under the
terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.2 or any later version
published by the Free Software Foundation; with no Invariant Sections, no
Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.  A copy of the license is included
in the section entitled [[GNU_Free_Documentation_License|/fdl.txt]].

By contributing to this page, you agree to assign copyright for your
contribution to the Free Software Foundation.  The Free Software Foundation
promises to always use either a verbatim copying license or a free
documentation license when publishing your contribution.  We grant you back all
your rights under copyright, including the rights to copy, modify, and
redistribute your contributions.
"""]]

# Concepts

A [[microkernel]] implements a minimal number of abstractions
that facilitate the realization of operating system services.

[[Mach's_concepts|mach/concepts]] are documented here.

Read OSF's Kernel Principles.  Find it under the
[[mach/documentation]] link.

# Exercises

Mach's API is documented in OSF's Kernel API book.  Find it
under the [[mach/documentation]] link.  Skim it to get an idea
of how the API looks and then try the following exercises:

Send messages using Mach's IPC mechanism
([detailed description](http://walfield.org/pub/people/neal/papers/hurd-misc/mach-ipc-without-mig.txt)).

Implement your own pager.  Write a server that synthesizes
content on the fly and have a client map the object into its
address space and print out the file.
