[[!meta copyright="Copyright © 2010, 2011, 2013 Free Software Foundation,
Inc."]]

[[!meta license="""[[!toggle id="license" text="GFDL 1.2+"]][[!toggleable
id="license" text="Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this
document under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.2 or
any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no Invariant
Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.  A copy of the license
is included in the section entitled [[GNU Free Documentation
License|/fdl]]."]]"""]]

[[!tag open_issue_gnumach open_issue_hurd]]


# IRC, freenode, #hurd, 2010

    <slpz> humm... why does tmpfs try to use the default pager? that's a bad
      idea, and probably will never work correctly...
    * slpz is thinking about old issues
    <slpz> tmpfs should create its own pagers, just like ext2fs, storeio...
    <slpz> slopez@slp-hurd:~$ settrans -a tmp /hurd/tmpfs 10M
    <slpz> slopez@slp-hurd:~$ echo "foo" > tmp/bar
    <slpz> slopez@slp-hurd:~$ cat tmp/bar
    <slpz> foo
    <slpz> slopez@slp-hurd:~$ 
    <slpz> :-)
    <pochu> slpz: woo you fixed it?
    <slpz> pochu: well, it's WIP, but reading/writing works...
    <slpz> I've replaced the use of default pager for the standard pager
      creation mechanism
    <antrik> slpz: err... how is it supposed to use swap space if not using the
      default pager?
    <antrik> slpz: or do you mean that it should act as a proxy, just
      allocating anonymous memory (backed by the default pager) itself?
    <youpi> antrik: the kernel uses the default pager if the application pager
      isn't responsive enough
    <slpz> antrik: it will just create memory objects and provide zerofilled
      pages when requested by the kernel (after a page fault)
    <antrik> youpi: that makes sense I guess... but how is that relevant to the
      question at hand?...
    <slpz> antrik: memory objects will contain the data by themselves
    <slpz> antrik: as youpi said, when memory is scarce, GNU Mach will start
      paging out data from memory objects to the default pager
    <slpz> antrik: that's the way in which pages will get into swap space
    <slpz> (if needed)
    <youpi> the thing being that the tmpfs pager has a chance to select pages
      he doesn't care any more about
    <antrik> slpz: well, the point is that instead of writing the pages to a
      backing store, tmpfs will just keep them in anonymous memory, and let the
      default pager write them out when there is pressure, right?
    <antrik> youpi: no idea what you are talking about. apparently I still
      don't really understand this stuff :-(
    <youpi> ah, but tmpfs doesn't have pages he doesn't care about, does it?
    <slpz> antrik: yes, but the term "anonymous memory" could be a bit
      confusing.
    <slpz> antrik: in GNU Mach, anonymous memory is backed by a memory object
      without a pager. In tmpfs, nodes will be allocated in memory objects, and
      the pager for those memory objects will be tmpfs itself
    <antrik> slpz: hm... I thought anynymous memory is backed by memory objects
      created from the default pager?
    <antrik> yes, I understand that tmpfs is supposed to be the pager for the
      objects it provides. they are obviously not anonymoust -- they have
      inodes in the tmpfs name space
    <antrik> but my understanding so far was that when Mach returns pages to
      the pager, they end up in anonymous memory allocated to the pager
      process; and then this pager is responsible for writing them back to the
      actual backing store
    <antrik> am I totally off there?...
    <antrik> (i.e. in my understanding the returned pages do not reside in the
      actual memory object the pager provides, but in an anonymous memory
      object)
    <slpz> antrik: you're right. The trick here is, when does Mach return the
      pages?
    <slpz> antrik: if we set the attribute "can_persist" in a memory object,
      Mach will keep it until object cache is full or memory is scarce
    <slpz> or we change the attributes so it can no longer persist, of course
    <slpz> without a backing store, if Mach starts sending us pages to be
      written, we're in trouble
    <slpz> so we must do something about it. One option, could be creating
      another pager and copying the contents between objects.
    <antrik> another pager? not sure what you mean
    <antrik> BTW, you didn't really say why we can't use the default pager for
      tmpfs objects :-)
    <slpz> well, there're two problems when using the default pager as backing
      store for translators
    <slpz> 1) Mach relies on it to do swapping tasks, so meddling with it is
      not a good idea
    <slpz> 2) There're problems with seqnos when trying to work with the
      default pager from tasks other the kernel itself
    <slpz> (probably, the latter could be fixed)
    <slpz> antrik: pager's terminology is a bit confusing. One can also say
      creating another memory object (though the function in libpager is
      "pager_create")
    <antrik> not sure why "meddling" with it would be a problem...
    <antrik> and yeah, I was vaguely aware that there is some seqno problem
      with tmpfs... though so far I didn't really understand what it was about
      :-)
    <antrik> makes sense now
    <antrik> anyways, AIUI now you are trying to come up with a mechanism where
      the default pager is not used for tmpfs objects directly, but without
      making it inefficient?
    <antrik> slpz: still don't understand what you mean by creating another
      memory object/pager...
    <antrik> (and yeat, the terminology is pretty mixed up even in Mach itself)
    <slpz> antrik: I meant creating another pager, in terms of calling again to
      libpager's pager_create
    <antrik> slpz: well, I understand what "create another pager" means... I
      just don't understand what this other pager would be, when you would
      create it, and what for...
    <slpz> antrik: oh, ok, sorry
    <slpz> antrik: creating another pager it's just a trick to avoid losing
      information when Mach's objects cache is full, and it decides to purge
      one of our objects
    <slpz> anyway, IMHO object caching mechanism is obsolete and should be
      replaced
    <slpz> I'm writting a comment to bug #28730 which says something about this
    <slpz> antrik: just one more thing :-) 
    <slpz> if you look at the code, for most time of their lives, anonymous
      memory objects don't have a pager
    <slpz> not even the default one
    <slpz> only the pageout thread, when the system is running really low on
      memory, gives them a reference to the default pager by calling
      vm_object_pager_create
    <slpz> this is not really important, but worth noting ;-)


# IRC, freenode, #hurd, 2011-09-28

    <slpz> mcsim: "Fix tmpfs" task should be called "Fix default pager" :-)
    <slpz> mcsim: I've been thinking about modifying tmpfs to actually have
      it's own storeio based backend, even if a tmpfs with storage sounds a bit
      stupid.
    <slpz> mcsim: but I don't like the idea of having translators messing up
      with the default pager...
    <antrik> slpz: messing up?...
    <slpz> antrik: in the sense of creating a number of arbitrarily sized
      objects
    <antrik> slpz: well, it doesn't really matter much whether a process
      indirectly eats up arbitrary amounts of swap through tmpfs, or directly
      through vm_allocate()...
    <antrik> though admittedly it's harder to implement resource limits with
      tmpfs
    <slpz> antrik: but I've talked about having its own storeio device as
      backend. This way Mach can pageout memory to tmpfs if it's needed.
    <mcsim> Do I understand correctly that the goal of tmpfs task is to create
      tmpfs in RAM?
    <slpz> mcsim: It is. But it also needs some kind of backend, just in case
      it's ordered to page out data to free some system's memory.
    <slpz> mcsim: Nowadays, this backend is another translator that acts as
      default pager for the whole system
    <antrik> slpz: pageout memory to tmpfs? not sure what you mean
    <slpz> antrik: I mean tmpfs acting as its own pager
    <antrik> slpz: you mean tmpfs not using the swap partition, but some other
      backing store?
    <slpz> antrik: Yes.

See also: [[open_issues/resource_management_problems/pagers]].

    <antrik> slpz: I don't think an extra backing store for tmpfs is a good
      idea. the whole point of tmpfs is not having a backing store... TBH, I'd
      even like to see a single backing store for anonymous memory and named
      files
    <slpz> antrik: But you need a backing store, even if it's the default pager
      :-)
    <slpz> antrik: The question is, Should users share the same backing store
      (swap space) or provide their own?
    <antrik> slpz: not sure what you mean by "users" in this context :-)
    <slpz> antrik: Real users with the ability of setting tmpfs translators
    <antrik> essentially, I'd like to have a single partition that contains
      both swap space and the main filesystem (at least /tmp, but probably also
      all of /run, and possibly even /home...)
    <antrik> but that's a bit off-topic :-)
    <antrik> well, ideally all storage should be accounted to a user,
      regardless whether it's swapped out anonymous storage, temporary named
      files, or permanent files
    <slpz> antrik: you could use a file as backend for tmpfs
    <antrik> slpz: what's the point of using tmpfs then? :-)
    <pinotree> (and then store the file in another tmpfs)
    <slpz> antrik: mach-defpager could be modified to use storeio instead of
      Mach's device_* operations, but by the way things work right now, that
      could be dangerous, IMHO
    <antrik> pinotree: hehe
    <pinotree> .. recursive tmpfs'es ;)
    <antrik> slpz: hm, sounds interesting
    <slpz> antrik: tmpfs would try to keep data in memory always it's possible
      (not calling m_o_lock_request would do the trick), but if memory is
      scarce an Mach starts paging out, it would write it to that
      file/device/whatever
    <antrik> ideally, all storage used by system tasks for swapped out
      anonymous memory as well as temporary named files would end up on the
      /run partition; while all storage used by users would end up in /home/*
    <antrik> if users share a partition, some explicit storage accounting would
      be useful too...
    <antrik> slpz: is that any different from what "normal" filesystems do?...
    <antrik> (and *should* it be different?...)
    <slpz> antrik: Yes, as most FS try to synchronize to disk at a reasonable
      rate, to prevent data losses.
    <slpz> antrik: tmpfs would be a FS that wouldn't synchronize until it's
      forced to do that (which, by the way, it's what's currently happening
      with everyone that uses the default pager).
    <antrik> slpz: hm, good point...
    <slpz> antrik: Also, metadata in never written to disk, only kept in memory
      (which saves a lot of I/O, too).
    <slpz> antrik: In fact, we would be doing the same as every other kernel
      does, but doing it explicitly :-)
    <antrik> I see the use in separating precious data (in permanent named
      files) from temporary state (anonymous memory and temporary named files)
      -- but I'm not sure whether having a completely separate FS for the
      temporary data is the right approach for that...
    <slpz> antrik: And giving the user the option to specify its own storage,
      so we don't limit him to the size established for swap by the super-user.
    <antrik> either way, that would be a rather radical change... still would
      be good to fix tmpfs as it is first if possible
    <antrik> as for limited swap, that's precisely why I'd prefer not to have
      an extra swap partition at all...
    <slpz> antrik: It's not much o fa change, it's how it works right now, with
      the exception of replacing the default pager with its own.
    <slpz> antrik: I think it's just a matter of 10-20 hours, as
      much. Including testing.
    <slpz> antrik: It could be forked with another name, though :-)
    <antrik> slpz: I don't mean radical change in the implementation... but a
      radical change in the way it would be used
    <slpz> antrik: I suggest "almosttmpfs" as the name for the forked one :-P
    <antrik> hehe
    <antrik> how about lazyfs?
    <slpz> antrik: That sound good to me, but probably we should use a more
      descriptive name :-)


## 2011-09-29

    <tschwinge> slpz, antrik: There is a defpager in the Hurd code.  It is not
      currently being used, and likely incomplete.  It is backed by libstore.
      I have never looked at it.

[[open_issues/mach-defpager_vs_defpager]].


# IRC, freenode, #hurd, 2011-11-08

    <mcsim> who else uses defpager besides tmpfs and kernel?
    <braunr> normally, nothing directly
    <mcsim> than why tmpfs should use defpager?
    <braunr> it's its backend
    <braunr> backign store rather
    <braunr> the backing store of most file systems are partitions
    <braunr> tmpfs has none, it uses the swap space
    <mcsim> if we allocate memory for tmpfs using vm_allocate, will it be able
      to use swap partition?
    <braunr> it should
    <braunr> vm_allocate just maps anonymous memory
    <braunr> anonymous memory uses swap space as its backing store too
    <braunr> but be aware that this part of the vm system is known to have
      deficiencies
    <braunr> which is why all mach based implementations have rewritten their
      default pager
    <mcsim> what kind of deficiencies?
    <braunr> bugs
    <braunr> and design issues, making anonymous memory fragmentation horrible
    <antrik> mcsim: vm_allocate doesn't return a memory object; so it can't be
      passed to clients for mmap()
    <mcsim> antrik: I use vm_allocate in pager_read_page
    <antrik> mcsim: well, that means that you have to actually implement a
      pager yourself
    <antrik> also, when the kernel asks the pager to write back some pages, it
      expects the memory to become free. if you are "paging" to ordinary
      anonymous memory, this doesn't happen; so I expect it to have a very bad
      effect on system performance
    <antrik> both can be avoided by just passing a real anonymous memory
      object, i.e. one provided by the defpager
    <antrik> only problem is that the current defpager implementation can't
      really handle that...
    <antrik> at least that's my understanding of the situation


# IRC, freenode, #hurd, 2013-07-05

    <teythoon> btw, why does the tmpfs translator have to talk to the pager?
    <teythoon> to get more control about how the memory is paged out?
    <teythoon> read lot's of irc logs about tmpfs on the wiki, but I couldn't
      find the answer to that
    <mcsim> teythoon: did you read this?
      http://www.gnu.org/software/hurd/hurd/translator/tmpfs/tmpfs_vs_defpager.html
    <teythoon> mcsim: I did
    <mcsim> teythoon: Last discussion, i think has very good point.
    <mcsim> To provide memory objects you should implement pager interface
    <mcsim> And if you implement pager interface you are the one who is asked
      to write data to backing storage to evict them
    <mcsim> But tmpfs doesn't do this
    <teythoon> mmm, clients doing mmap...
    <mcsim> teythoon: You don't have mmap
    <mcsim> teythoon: mmap is implemented on top of mach interface
    <mcsim> teythoon: I mean you don't have mmap at this level
    <teythoon> mcsim: sure, but that's close enough for me at this point
    <mcsim> teythoon: diskfs interface requires implementor to provide a memory
      object port (send right)
    <mcsim> Guest8183: Why tmpfs requires defpager
    <Guest8183> how did you get to talk about that ?
    <mcsim> I was just asked
    <teythoon> Guest8183: it's just so unsettling that tmpfs has to be started
      as root :/
    <Guest8183> teythoon: why ?
    *** Guest8183 (~rbraun@dalaran.sceen.net) is now known as braunr_
    <teythoon> braunr_: b/c starting translators isn't a privileged operation,
      and starting a tmpfs translator that doesn't even access any device but
      "just" memory shouldn't require any special privileges as well imho
    <teythoon> so why is tmpfs not based on say libnetfs? b/c it is used for
      d-i and someone (apt?) mmaps stuff?
    <pinotree> being libdiskfs-based isn't much the issue, iirc
    <pinotree> http://lists.gnu.org/archive/html/bug-hurd/2013-03/msg00014.html
      too
    <kilobug> teythoon: AFAIK apt uses mmap, yes
    <braunr_> teythoon: right
    <braunr_> a ramfs is actually tricky to implement well
    <mcsim> braunr_: What do you mean under "to implement well"?
    <braunr_> as efficiently as possible
    <braunr_> i.e. being as close as possible to the page cache for minimum
      overhead
    <mcsim> braunr: AFAIK ramfs should not use swap partition, so page cache
      shouldn't be relevant for it.
    <braunr> i'm talking about a ramfs in general
    <braunr> not the specific linux ramfs
    <braunr> in linux, what they call ramfs is the tiny version of tmpfs that
      doesn't use swap
    <braunr> i actually don't like "tmpfs" much
    <braunr> memfs may be more appropriate
    <braunr> anyway
    <mcsim> braunr: I see. And do you consider defpager variant as "close as
      possible to the page cache"?
    <braunr> not far at least
    <braunr> if we were able to use it for memory obects, it would be nice
    <braunr> but defpager only gets attached to objects when they're evicted
    <braunr> before that, anonymous (or temporary, in mach terminology) objects
      have no backing store
    <braunr> this was probably designed without having tmpfs in mind
    <braunr> i wonder if it's possible to create a memory object without a
      backing store
    <mcsim> what should happen to it if kernel decides to evict it?
    <braunr> it sets the default pager as its backing store and pushes it out
    <mcsim> that's how it works now, but you said "create a memory object
      without a backing store"
    <braunr> mach can do that
    <braunr> i was wondering if we could do that too from userspace
    <mcsim> mach does not evict such objects, unless it bound a defpager to
      them
    <mcsim> but how can you handle this in userspace?
    <braunr> i mean, create a memory object with a null control port
    <braunr> mcsim: is that clearer ?
    <mcsim> suppose you create such object, how kernel will evict it if kernel
      does not know who is responsible for eviction of this object?
    <braunr> it does
    <braunr> 16:41 < braunr> it sets the default pager as its backing store and
      pushes it out
    <braunr> that's how i intend to do it on x15 at least
    <braunr> but it's much simpler there because uvm provides better separation
      between anonymous and file memory
    <braunr> whereas they're much too similar in mach vm
    <mcsim> than what the difference between current situation, when you
      explicitly invoke defpager to create object and implicit method you
      propose?
    <braunr> you don't need a true defpager unless you actually have swap
    <mcsim> ok
    <mcsim> now I see
    <braunr> it also saves the communication overhead when initializing the
      object
    <mcsim> thank you
    <braunr> which may be important since we use ramfs for speed mostly
    <mcsim> agree
    <braunr> it should also simplify the defpager implementation, since it
      would only have a single client, the kernel
    <braunr> which may also be important with regard to global design
    <braunr> one thing which is in my opinion very wrong with mach is that it
      may be a client
    <braunr> a well designed distributed system should normally not allow on
      component to act as both client and server toward another
    <braunr> i.e. the kernel should only be a server, not a client
    <braunr> and there should be a well designed server hierarchy to avoid
      deadlocks
    <braunr> (such as the one we had in libpager because of that)
    <mcsim> And how about filesystem? It acts both as server and as client
    <braunr> yes
    <braunr> but not towards the same other component
    <braunr> application -> file system -> kernel
    <braunr> no "<->"
    <braunr> the qnx documentation explains that quite well
    <braunr> let me see if i can find the related description
    <mcsim> Basically, I've got your point. And I would rather agree that
      kernel should not act as client
    <braunr> mcsim:
      http://www.qnx.com/developers/docs/6.4.0/neutrino/sys_arch/ipc.html#Robust
    <braunr> one way to implement that (and qnx does that too) is to make
      pagers act as client only
    <braunr> they sleep in the kernel, waiting for a reply
    <braunr> and when the kernel needs to evict something, a reply is sent
    <braunr> (qnx doesn't actually do that for paging, but it's a general idea)
    <mcsim> braunr: how hierarchy of senders is enforced?
    <braunr> it's not
    <braunr> developers must take care
    <braunr> same as locking, be careful about it
