[[!meta copyright="Copyright © 2010 Free Software Foundation, Inc."]]

[[!meta license="""[[!toggle id="license" text="GFDL 1.2+"]][[!toggleable
id="license" text="Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this
document under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.2 or
any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no Invariant
Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.  A copy of the license
is included in the section entitled [[GNU Free Documentation
License|/fdl]]."]]"""]]

Well as [[weblogs/ArneBab]] asked me to, I made a blog here in the Hurd's community section.

So I suppose it's time for me to introduce myself. I'm a lawyer student just short of my masters' (called "diploma" here in Slovenia) and a hacker by heart. I've been using GNU/Linux for over a decade now, started on Slackware and continued on Gentoo. I try to give back to the community by being an active member (posting bugs and whatnot), coordinating the local FSFE Fellowship group and lately also lending a hand to the Gentoo Licenses team. I keep a [website and blog](http://matija.suklje.name) of my own and occasionally even write some short sad piece of crappy code.

Small disclaimer about my coding abilities:

    10 IANAC IAAL

Anyway, I'm really intrigued by the idea of GNU Hurd and am currently trying to tweak the latest Debian QEmu image to work like I want it and if I ever succeed in making a LiveCD or QEmu image to share with your friends what all works on Hurd already (a nice desktop/WM, some GUI apps, cool translators etc.), it'd be happy.

    20 GOTO 10

I can't promise anything though, since I'm right at the crossroads — still have to finish my school while I'm already looking for a job. I hope all goes well though :]

P.S. For those who wonder about what IANAC IAAL means — it's the oposite of IANAL IAAC and means "I Am Not A Coder, I Am A Lawyer" ;)
