%TOC%

# <a name="GNU_pre0_3_J2_for_Bochs_mini_FAQ"> </a> GNU pre0.3-J2 for Bochs mini-FAQ

----

## <a name="What_do_you_mean_GNU_the_GNU_Hur"> </a> What do you mean "GNU", the GNU Hurd?

Yes and no. See <http://www.gnu.org/software/hurd/faq.en.html#q1-2>

## <a name="Where_are_"> Where are...? </a>

Latest version of this FAQ: [[Distrib/BochsFAQ]]

Latest GNU image for Bochs: [http://sourceforge.net/project/showfiles.php?group\_id=12580](http://sourceforge.net/project/showfiles.php?group_id=12580)

## <a name="Disk_line_for_bochsrc_"> Disk line for .bochsrc? </a>

for Bochs 2.0 or later:

        ata0-master: type=disk, path="gnu.img", cylinders=1024, heads=16, spt=63

for older versions:

        diskc: file="gnu.img", cyl=1024, heads=16, spt=63

## <a name="My_PATH_and_prompt_are_weird_and"> </a> My PATH and prompt are weird, and X clients fail

the profile is not loaded properly, do it manualy with `". /etc/profile"`.

## <a name="How_can_i_change_terminals_"> How can i change terminals? </a>

The Mach console doesn't have multi-terminal capability, and the usual solution is the "screen" program, but..

..the new console server is installed and configured with 6 terminals. beware it hasn't been properly tested. You can launch it with the ncursesw driver:

        console -d ncursesw /dev/vcs
 and then switching via `C-w 1` (or 2, 3, ...). you can exit it with `C-w x`

see <http://lists.debian.org/debian-hurd/2002/debian-hurd-200209/msg00054.html> for more details

IMPORTANT: note that X doesn't work well while running the console server.

## <a name="Does_X_work_"> Does X work? </a>

Somewhat:

* DRI and speedo modules won't load so they're deactivated.
* The VESA driver also failed so VGA is being used.
* more than 8 bpp won't work.
* for some weird reason the mouse server in `/dev/mouse` doesn't respond, so the mouse is inoperative.
* GNU is still an unstable OS which makes X crash often on it.

To reconfigure it:

        dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xfree86
 then apply a patch to fix the mouse section:
        patch /etc/X11/XF86config-4 /root/XF86Config-4.diff
 Installed clients are blackbox window manager and rxvt terminal emulator.

## <a name="Is_network_configured_"> Is network configured? </a>

Yes, to change parameters use:

        settrans -apfg /servers/socket/2 /hurd/pfinet [options to pfinet]
 (see `/hurd/pfinet --help` for details)

## <a name="How_do_i_mount_stuff_"> How do i mount stuff? </a>

        settrans -afg <node> /hurd/<translator> <options to translator>
 Where `node` is your mount point and `translator` is the filesystem server. Add `-p` to settrans if you want it to stay over reboots (fstab-like)

## <a name="Anything_neat_to_try_"> Anything neat to try? </a>

yes! instead of `"su"` use `"sush"`, a more flexible version that manages multiple UIDs.

you can also play with userspace filesystems for NFS and FTP in `/hurd/{nfs,ftpfs}` that you can run as user, debug with GDB, etc.

## <a name="More_questions_"> More questions? </a>

Read the FAQ (<http://www.gnu.org/software/hurd/faq.en.html>) for a general overview on the GNU system.

-- [[Main/RobertMillan]] - 20 Nov 2002

TWikified it --- this is my first attempt at TWiki, I hope it's easier to read.

-- [[Main/DaniloSegan]] - 08 Jan 2003

Looks nice to me! Robert?

-- [[Main/GrantBow]] - 14 Jan 2003
