Charles, here's a place for you! As usual, you can find [more information here](http://www.debian.org/ports/hurd/hurd-cd). Past notes may be of help as well.

----

It seems the building of the CDs is being passed to the University of Calicut. [Re: latest ISO images](http://lists.debian.org/debian-hurd/2007/07/msg00095.html) K 14 is the latest stable, L1 is the development version.

-- [[Main/GrantBow]] - 24 Jul 2007

Date search function borken, will be fixed in next TWiki base software upgrade.

-- [[Main/JoachimNilsson]] - 12 Mar 2005

What we need is a [[ReleaseHome]] page and to expand the system so that a chronological set of all releases from all the different distributions can be seen, but that's for another day. The [[HurdReleaseForm]] is in place already, it just needs to be updated with the other folks who are releasing distros. The hard part is to get the info that a particular distro is released on a particular date. Creating new Notes page is also a manual process due to the TWiki searches and comment box that need to be added to each one. Right now, I'm the only one who knows how or seems to have tried.

-- [[Main/GrantBow]] - 03 Feb 2004

<table>
  <tr>
    <td valign="top" width="50%">
      <p> %SEARCH{"Mediatype.*?value=\"CD\"" scope="text" regex="on" nosearch="on" nototal="on" header="| <strong>Release</strong> | <strong>Date</strong> |" format="| [[Topic]] | $formfield(Release Date) |"}% </p>
      <p>
      </p>
    </td>
    <td>
      <p>
      </p>
    </td>
    <td valign="top" width="50%">
      <p> %SEARCH{"Mediatype.*?value=" scope="text" regex="on" nosearch="on" nototal="on" header="| <strong>Release</strong> | <strong>Date</strong> |" format="| [[Topic]] | $formfield([[ReleaseDate]]) |" order="formfield([[ReleaseDate]])" }% </p>
      <p>
      </p>
    </td>
  </tr>
</table>
