%TOC%

# <a name="Media_Press_Kit"> Media / Press Kit </a>

## <a name="Problem"> Problem </a>

Debian awareness not as high as other Linux distributions. Some people don't take Debian seriously because of it's organizational structure. Target audience lacks education. Most current Debian users are rather skilled and sometimes PERCIEVED as arrogant. "Non-technical" participation is not fully recognized.

## <a name="Target_Audience"> Target Audience </a>

* non-users without any experience of Debian.
  * Technically-minded people will often be convinced already of why they should use Debian
* casual users who might be interested in Debian
* ammunition for those who are campaigning to have Debian used
  * With our backgrounds, we could emphasize that we can provide material in the langauge that decision-makers can understand.

## <a name="Solution_Goal"> Solution / Goal </a>

* persuade people to use Debian
* give target audience realistic expectations of running GNU/Linux
  * skills expected
  * differences from what they already know
* educate target audience about benefits and advantages of Debian.
* give target audience realistic expectations of running Debian
  * skills expected
  * differences from what they already know
* background materials, "marketing collateral"

You have proposed two documents that sound on target to me.

<dl>
  <dt><span style="background:"><font color="">Why Debian?</font></span><a href="http://LOCATION/WhyDebian">?</a></dt>
  <dd> A bullet list meant to give a quick answer. </dd>
  <dt><span style="background:"><font color="">Debian Product Sheet</font></span><a href="http://LOCATION/DebianProductSheet">?</a></dt>
  <dd> includes interesting facts </dd>
</dl>

The third is a collection of success stories which is more of a process than a clearly defined deliverable in itself. That sounds wonderful.

I think another active process for tracking recent news (if it doesn't already exist) should also be useful for similar purposes.

## <a name="Result"> Result </a>

* two documents: Why Debian? &amp; Debian Product Sheet
  * these will be documents of a Debian media/press kit
  * processes to keep these documents updated over time. For example, every release.
  * beginning of a central repository for info about Debian
* a web repsitory for success stories
  * some kind of link or integration with current website.
* increased appreciation by official Debian organization for non-technical participation.
* increased non-technical Debian user involvement
* increased adoption of Debian GNU/Linux by users.
* consideration for using SPI funds for hiring part-time PR resources

-- [[Main/GrantBow]] - 13 Jan 2003
