There are differences betwen the [Debian Free Software Guidelines](http://www.debian.org/social_contract#guidelines) (DFSG) and [Free Software](http://www.fsf.org/philosophy/free-sw.html) as defined by the Free Software Foundation. The FSF's GNU project is the sponsor of the GNU/Hurd project. Debian GNU/Hurd is a "port" or distribution of this software. I have not yet performed a comparison between the list of acceptable DFSG licenses (if a list exists) and the acceptable Free Software [license list](http://www.gnu.org/licenses/license-list.html). (Perhaps not directly related but for reference, here's the Open Source [license list](http://www.opensource.org/licenses/index.html))

What will this consist of? In the end the result will need to be simply a list of packages with their license marked next to them. This will be relatively simple for those packages that use a standard license. Software that has it's own custom license will need to be categorized.

I am thinking of ways to automatically check the licenses and to get lists of the various "Priority:" packages. I thought this list of package names would be easy to obtain. The first step is getting the list of packages. This is possible by parsing /var/lib/dpkg/available, using dpkg or using apt-cache.

The next step is checking the licenses of the packages. There is no dpkg package field available for license. A script that checks licenses will involve using "apt-get source" to check the COPYING and/or similar files in each package.

-- [[Main/GrantBow]] - 5 Oct 2002

I used the following command on an old Hurd machine to get the 22 packages with Essential in their description. I've listed them and put them in a table at the end of this topic.

    sed -e '/./{H;$!d;}' -e 'x;/Essential\:\ yes/!d' /var/lib/dpkg/status | egrep ^Package | sort

base-files base-passwd bash bsdutils debianutils diff dpkg e2fsprogs fileutils findutils grep gzip hostname hurd ncurses-base ncurses-bin perl-base sed shellutils tar textutils util-linux

Using `base` instead of `Essential\:\ yes` above I find 64 additional packages.

adduser alsa-base apt autoconf2.13 bug cpp-3.0 cvs debconf debconf-utils debhelper debiandoc-sgml debian-policy developers-reference exim fetchmail-common g++-3.0 gcc-3.0 gcc-3.0-base gettext gettext-base gnumach groff groff-base inetutils libc0.3 libc0.3-dev libdb2 libdb2++ libdb2-dev libdb2++-dev libdb2-util libdb3 libgdbmg1 libncurses5 libnet-perl libpam0g libpam-runtime libperl5.6 libpopt0 libpopt-dev libreadline4 libstdc++3 libstdc++3-dev libwrap0 libxaw7 man-db mawk mutt netbase passwd perl python python2.1 screen sgmltools-lite slang1 ssh tcpd texinfo xfree86-common xlibs xserver-common xterm xutils

-- [[Main/GrantBow]] - 11 Jan 2003

<table border="1" cellpadding="1" cellspacing="0">
  <tr>
    <td> Name </td>
    <td> Compatible License? </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td> base-files </td>
    <td>   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td> base-passwd </td>
    <td>   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td> bash </td>
    <td>   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td> bsdutils </td>
    <td>   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td> debianutils </td>
    <td>   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td> diff </td>
    <td>   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td> dpkg </td>
    <td>   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td> e2fsprogs </td>
    <td>   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td> fileutils </td>
    <td>   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td> findutils </td>
    <td>   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td> grep </td>
    <td>   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td> gzip </td>
    <td>   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td> hostname </td>
    <td>   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td> hurd </td>
    <td>   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td> ncurses-base </td>
    <td>   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td> ncurses-bin </td>
    <td>   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td> perl-base </td>
    <td>   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td> sed </td>
    <td>   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td> shellutils </td>
    <td>   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td> tar </td>
    <td>   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td> textutils </td>
    <td>   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td> util-linux </td>
    <td>   </td>
  </tr>
</table>
