[[!meta copyright="Copyright © 2011, 2012, 2018 Free Software Foundation,
Inc."]]

[[!meta license="""[[!toggle id="license" text="GFDL 1.2+"]][[!toggleable
id="license" text="Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this
document under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.2 or
any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no Invariant
Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.  A copy of the license
is included in the section entitled [[GNU Free Documentation
License|/fdl]]."]]"""]]

[[!meta title="Porting Google Go (GCC: gccgo)"]]

[[!template id=highlight text="""/!\ Obsolete /!\

---

This is no longer valid as a Google Summer of Code project; existing work needs
to be integrated first."""]]


The goal of this project is to make the [Google Go programming
language](http://golang.org/) available on GNU/Hurd in its [[GCC]] *gccgo*
implementation.

Presumably less work will be needed on the language's frontend itself, but
rather on the supporting libraries.

Apart from a solid knowledge of the [[POSIX]] API, working knowledge of the
Google Go programming language is a must.  Some Hurd knowledge will have to be
acquired while working on the project.

Designing and implementing [[language_bindings]] is a follow-up project.

Possible mentors: Ian Lance Taylor: gccgo bits, [[Thomas Schwinge
(tschwinge)|tschwinge]]: Hurd bits.

Exercise: Fix one of the problems preventing *gccgo* from working on the Hurd.

---

[[Open Issue page|open_issues/gccgo]].  [Entry in the GCC
wiki](http://gcc.gnu.org/wiki/SummerOfCode#gccgo_hurd).
