[[!meta copyright="Copyright © 2009, 2010, 2012, 2018 Free Software Foundation,
Inc."]]

[[!meta license="""[[!toggle id="license" text="GFDL 1.2+"]][[!toggleable
id="license" text="Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this
document under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.2 or
any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no Invariant
Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.  A copy of the license
is included in the section entitled
[[GNU Free Documentation License|/fdl]]."]]"""]]

[[!meta title="Porting libgtop"]]

[[!template id=highlight text="""/!\ Obsolete /!\

---

This is no longer valid as a Google Summer of Code project; it's done."""]]


libgtop is a library used by many applications (especially GNOME applications)
to abstract the system-specific methods for obtaining information about the
current state of the system -- processes running, system load etc.

A Linux-compatible [[hurd/translator/procfs]] is available
and should cover a large part of the functionality of
libgtop. However, not all necessary information is exported via /proc (even on
Linux); there are some bits still missing in the Hurd procfs implementation;
and there are a couple of bugs that need to be fixed to make it fully usable.

The goal of this project is a fully functional libgtop in Debian GNU/Hurd. Some
application(s) using it also need to be ported, e.g. gnome-system-monitor.

Some bits of this work are easy, others need some digging into Hurd internals.
This task doesn't require any specific previous knowledge (besides of general
C/UNIX programming skills of course); but during the course of the project,
some knowledge about Hurd internals will have to be obtained, along with a bit
of Debian stuff.
