[[!meta copyright="Copyright © 2013 Free Software Foundation, Inc."]]

[[!meta license="""[[!toggle id="license" text="GFDL 1.2+"]][[!toggleable
id="license" text="Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this
document under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.2 or
any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no Invariant
Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.  A copy of the license
is included in the section entitled [[GNU Free Documentation
License|/fdl]]."]]"""]]

[[!meta title="Improved System Object Lookups"]]

The Hurd currently uses its ihash library ([[hurd/libihash]]) as a generic
container for various objects. While it does its job, it has been reported
to suffer from high collision rates. In addition, the "one size fits all"
approach contributes to slow things down. One particular use case is looking
up an object from a Mach port name, which basically translates to getting the
file or socket associated with a file descriptor in traditional Unix systems.
It's particular because there are actually two lookups for each object, the
first being finding the Mach port from a client port name, which is done in
the GNU Mach kernel, and the second being finding the server object from a
server port name. The best strategy would probably be to directly associate
the address of an object to the receive right of its port, eliminating the
need to look up again, but this is quite an intrusive change in the code base.
For the time being, optimizing lookups would already be an improvement.

The goal of this project is to increase system performance by speeding up
object lookups, with a particular focus on name-to-object lookups. Note that
there is little room for improvement in the kernel name-to-port lookups because
of the various optimizations IPC has received in the past. Looking up server
objects from port names could use an algorithm highly tuned for this task,
perhaps with better locking (shared/exclusive instead of always mutually
exclusive for example). Then, the libihash algorithm could be replaced with a
better one, not necessarily a hash based one, to improve all the other users.

This task requires proper knowledge of data structure algorithms, taking into
account machine properties such as processor caches, as well as the appropriate
skills in C and assembly to check the generated code. Being able to perform
accurate measurements in a system that lacks modern profiling tools would also
be helpful.

Possible mentors: Richard Braun


# IRC, freenode, #hurd, 2013-09-18

In context of [[!message-id "20130918081345.GA13789@dalaran.sceen.net"]].

    <teythoon> braunr: (wrt the gnumach HACK) funny, I was thinking about doind
      the same for userspace servers, renaming ports to the address of the
      associated object, saving the need for the hash table...
    <braunr> teythoon: see
      http://darnassus.sceen.net/~hurd-web/community/gsoc/project_ideas/object_lookups/
    <braunr> teythoon: my idea is to allow servers to set a label per port,
      obtained at mesage recv time
    <braunr> because, yes, looking up an object twice is ridiculous
    <braunr> you normally still want port names to be close to 0 because it
      allows some data structure optimizations
    <teythoon> braunr: yes, I feared that ports should normally be smallish
      integers and contigious at best
    <teythoon> braunr: interesting that you say there that libihash suffers
      from high collision rates
    <teythoon> I've a theory to why that is, libihash doesn't do any hashing at
      all
    <pinotree> there are notes about that in the open_issues section of the
      wiki
    <teythoon> but I figured that this is probably ok for port names, as they
      are small and contigious
    <neal> braunr: That's called protected payload.
    <neal> braunr: The idea is that the kernel appends data to the message in
      flight.
