[[!meta copyright="Copyright © 2009, 2010, 2011, 2014 Free Software Foundation,
Inc."]]

[[!meta license="""[[!toggle id="license" text="GFDL 1.2+"]][[!toggleable
id="license" text="Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this
document under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.2 or
any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no Invariant
Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.  A copy of the license
is included in the section entitled [[GNU Free Documentation
License|/fdl]]."]]"""]]

[[!meta title="Improving Perl or Python Support"]]

<!-- See also open_issues/perl and open_issues/python.  -->

Perl and Python are available on the Hurd, but there are still test suite
failures. These could be caused by problems in the system-specific
implementation bits of Perl/Python, and/or shortcomings in the actual system
functionality which Perl/Python depends on.

The student applying for this project can pick either Perl or Python,
whichever he is more comfortable with.
(Perl is higher priority though; and there are more failures too.)

The goal then is to fix all of the problems with the chosen language if possible, or at
least some of them. Some issues might require digging quite deep into Hurd
internals, while others are probably easy to fix.

Note that while some Perl/Python knowledge is probably necessary to understand what
the test suite failures are about, the actual work necessary to fix these
issues is mostly C programming -- in the implementation of Perl/Python and/or the
Hurd.

Possible mentors: Samuel Thibault (youpi)

Exercise: Take a stab at one of the testsuite failures,
and write a minimal testcase exposing the underlying problem.
Actually fixing it would be a bonus of course --
but as it's hard to predict which issues will be easy and which will be tricky,
we will already be satisfied if the student makes a good effort.
(We hope to see some discussion of the problems in this case though :-) )
