## <a name="Dev_Reorg_Note_"> Dev Reorg Note: </a>

The latest version of FileAttachments includes attachments under revision control. It's in the 01 Sep 2001 TWiki release.

* Current Dev topic: [[Codev/AttachmentsUnderRevisionControl]]

----

Each topic can have files attached to it. This is similar to an e-mail attachment. Just use your browser to upload or download a file.

* To upload: Click on the Attach link at the bottom of each page. A form is shown where you can browse for a file and upload it. The uploaded file will show up in the FileAttachment table.
* To download: Click on the file in the FileAttachment table.

**FileAttachment table**

Is a table that looks like this:

<table border="0" cellpadding="0" cellspacing="4">
  <tr bgcolor="#99CCCC">
    <th>FileAttachment: </th>
    <th> Action: </th>
    <th> Size: </th>
    <th> Date: </th>
    <th> Who: </th>
    <th> Comment: </th>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td> (attached file) </td>
    <td> (view, update, add) </td>
    <td> (file size) </td>
    <td> (upload date) </td>
    <td> (uploaded by) </td>
    <td> (file comment) </td>
  </tr>
</table>

**Action** is:

* **view:** View file. This is the same as clicking on the filename.
* **update:** Update file that is already attached.
* **add:** Add a new attachment.

**Remarks**

* Once a file is attached it can be referenced in the topic by <code>%ATTACHURL%/\{filename\}</code> . Example:
  * Attach file: `Sample.txt`
  * Text is shown as: %PUBURL%/%WEB%/%TOPIC%/Sample.txt , i.e. it is a link.
* GIF and JPG images can be attached and shown in the text like this:
  * Attach file: `Smile.gif`
  * Edit topic and write text: <code>%ATTACHURL%/Smile.gif</code>
  * Text is shown as: %PUBURL%/%WEB%/%TOPIC%/Smile.gif , i.e. it shows up as an image.
* It is not possible to delete attached files with the current TWiki implementation. Contact %WIKIWEBMASTER% if you need to delete files.
