<div>
  <center> [ [[GnuSkin]] | [[GnuSkin]] | [[GnuSkinPlugin]] | <nop>GnuSkinTodo | [[GnuSkinReleaseNotes]] | <a href="http://savannah.gnu.org/projects/twiki-skins" target="_top">CVS</a> ] </nop></center>
</div>

## <a name="Small_ToDo_list_for_the_GnuSkin"> </a> Small ToDo list for the [[GnuSkin]]

**_Introduction:_**

Please use the TWiki:Plugins/GnuSkinPluginDev topic for discussions regarding the GNUskin.

The leading theme for all my work was given to me by my English teacher at university. He said; "Writers always do too much. The beauty lies in short concise sentences." To make it easier for us to understand he paced the lecture hall and repeatedly stated:

_Simplify, simplify, simplify!_

There is a book written on this emphasizing my point even further. The book is brief and straight to the point. If you don't believe me, read [Elements of Style](http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/ASIN/0205191584/paradigmonlinewr/102-3410829-5714537) by William Strunk &amp; E. B. White.

----

**_Latest News:_**

2003-03-02: [[GnuSkin]] 1.2 is released! Download from TWiki:Plugins/GnuSkinInstall

CVS available from Savannah, <http://savannah.gnu.org/projects/twiki-skins>

Development is progressing smoothly. If you would like to see the latest [[GnuSkin]] you can visit my personal web below. I do not make any promises on user experience or even if the site is up and running w/o bugs ... beware of bleeding edge!

* <http://joachim.vmlinux.org/twiki/bin/view/>

Use the sandbox for tests and fooling around.

### <a name="Branch_1_x"> Branch 1.x </a>

Oups, some bugs and suggestions for improvement just arrived.

* In IE: Go back in preview after changing something in a topic. The changes are lost.
* The link to [[WebSearch]] was lost from the Go/Search field.

-- [[Main/JoachimNilsson]] - 19 Mar 2003

### <a name="Branch_2_x"> Branch 2.x </a>

Before I start working on this I must upgrade my home TWiki installation...

The new 2.x branch (becomes head after release of 1.2) intended for TWiki:Codev/BeijingRelease will contain mostly the same code as the 1.2 release. With a few small additions:

**_Pending:_**

* I18N fixes for the 2.0 release. The Beijing release prompts this, see TWiki:Plugins/InternationalisingYourSkin. Stefan has supplied a patch below! :-)

* _Roll back to topic revision X_
  * Perhaps delay this after 2.0?

* Other adaptations for the Beijing release of TWiki?
  * Read up on TWiki.org

* Enable checkpoint save from preferences setting.

**_Fixed:_**

* Another bug related to 01Feb2003 release. EDITBOXSTYLE is not supported by [[GnuSkin]]. Modify edit.gnu.tmpl and add style="%EDITBOXSTYLE%" to the textarea tag and it will work with automatic edit area just as the TWiki skin. Same HTML as in `edit.tmpl`.
  * FIXED. <br />Reported by TWiki:Main.StefanLindmark - 24 Feb 2003

* Add option to turn preview mode off.
  * Perhaps delay this after 2.0?
  * Added to 1.2 using the savemulti scipt by Colas. The user can now select either to preview or directly save any changes made, or cancel them altogether.

* Blue and Green skin style is available - add other complementary colors as well. This is useful to contrast with the web colors!

### <a name="Future_releases"> Future releases </a>

* Separate the side bar, the [[WebMenu]], from the [[GnuSkinPlugin]].
  * After 2.0!

* Look at some neat DHTML scripts for the [[WebMenu]] and the More button.
  * Disable per default - document howto include them.
  * Consider enabling these through a preferences variable.

* Parametrisize more.
  * User configurable everything, as far as possible.
  * The top logo could perhaps be removed altogether, and/or be more user customizable.
  * Fix the CSS stuff - one should be able to use a style sheet that "matches" the chosen web color better. (matches/complements/whatever).
  * Use customizable menu. Be able to use the standard TWiki menus?

### <a name="Comments_and_User_Supplied_Patch"> Comments and User Supplied Patches </a>

This brainstorm topic for the [[GnuSkin]] was mostly for myselft, but has proved probably useful to others as well.

-- [[Main/JoachimNilsson]] - 17 Feb 2003

I18N modifications required to use new I18N features in TWiki incorporated into templates. Please see attached diff file for diffs againt [[GnuSkin]] CVS 2003-02-18.

-- TWiki:Main.StefanLindmark - 21 Feb 2003
