## <a name="Welcome_to_the_TOPIC_"> Welcome to the %TOPIC% </a>

This is the supplemental plugin for the [[GnuSkin]]. It provides a small Perl engine for handling dynamic, user configurable, content. For more information see the [[GnuSkin]] page.

**_Installation:_**

See [[GnuSkinInstall]] for details of download and installation instructions.

### <a name="_TOPIC_Default_Settings"> %TOPIC% Default Settings </a>

Plugin settings are stored as preferences variables. To reference a plugin setting write <code>**%&lt;plugin&gt;\_&lt;setting&gt;%**</code>, i.e. <code>**%EMPTYPLUGIN\_SHORTDESCRIPTION%**</code>

* One line description, is shown in the %TWIKIWEB%.TextFormattingRules topic:
  * Set SHORTDESCRIPTION = Supplements the bare bones [[GnuSkin]] theme for TWiki

* Debug plugin: (See output in `data/debug.txt`)
  * Set DEBUG = 0

An example logo, named `logo.png`, is provided in the [[GnuSkin]] library. To provide your own web-specific logo, attach a file named `logo.png` to any [[WebPreferences]] page, or set the WEBLOGO variable on the same page to use a logo with a different name.

> * <code>**Set WEBLOGO = %PUBURL%/%MAINWEB%/LogoTopic/my\_project\_logo.png**</code>

For non-graphical user agents the `alt` attribute of the WEBLOGO is hard coded to be the ASCII representation of our favourite animal supplemented with the name of the currently displayed wiki web.

* A configurable left hand menu bar - the contents can be set in an editable [[WebMenu]] topic - one for the %TWIKIWEB% web and optionally one for other webs. See [[WebMenuFormat]] for details. , supplied one cover TWiki, Main and Test Webs

## <a name="Plugin_Info"> Plugin Info </a>

<table border="1" cellpadding="1" cellspacing="0">
  <tr>
    <td align="center"> Plugin Author: </td>
    <td><span style="background:"><font color="">Joachim Nilsson</font></span>[[Main/JoachimNilsson]]</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td align="center"> Plugin Version: </td>
    <td> 28 May 2002 </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td align="center"> Change History: </td>
    <td>  </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td align="center"> 28 May 2002: </td>
    <td> Project started </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td align="center"> CPAN Dependencies: </td>
    <td> none </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td align="right"> Other Dependencies: </td>
    <td> none </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td align="center"> Perl Version: </td>
    <td> 5.005 </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td align="center"> Plugin Home: </td>
    <td><a href="http://TWiki.org/cgi-bin/view/Plugins/%TOPIC%" target="_top">http://TWiki.org/cgi-bin/view/Plugins/%TOPIC%</a></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td align="center"> Feedback: </td>
    <td><a href="http://TWiki.org/cgi-bin/view/Plugins/%TOPIC%Dev" target="_top">http://TWiki.org/cgi-bin/view/Plugins/%TOPIC%Dev</a></td>
  </tr>
</table>

**_Related Topics:_** %TWIKIWEB%.TWikiPreferences, %TWIKIWEB%.TWikiPlugins
