### <a name="Welcome_to_the_GnuSkin"> </a> Welcome to the [[GnuSkin]]

So named because of the hidden Gnu head and, of course, its simplistic design. It was originally designed for [the Hurd](http://hurd.gnu.org/) Wiki web but is now easily available to other people as well. See the historic notes, below, for more details.

**_Features:_**

* User configurable navigation bar on the left hand side, content on the right

* Top menubar that including the main features of TWiki

* Per web configurable top logotypes.

**_Installation:_**

* Unpack the skin package inside your TWiki installation directory.

* Edit the [[WebMenu]] topic to set the contents of the menu bar.

* Add the following line to %TWIKIWEB%.TWikiPreferences or to any [[WebPreferences]] topic

          * Set SKIN = gnu

* If using multiple skin handlers then the following line needs to be included in %TWIKIWEB%.TWikiPreferences to set the TWiki wide default or in a specific [[WebPreferences]] topic to use the Gnu Skin handler only for that Web.

          * Set SKINHANDLER = Gnu

* **Note:** If this is the first (and only) skin handler the TWiki skin handler defaults to procssing the SKIN unless SKINHANDLER is set to some value besides Gnu.

**_Stuff:_** The [[TigerSkin]] comes with a plugin - see [[TigerSkinPlugin]] - that inserts items such as the left hand menu. It uses the plugin to read the [[WebMenu]] topic, etc.

The [[TigerSkin]] can be used (optionally) with the [[SessionPlugin]] - it then allows logon and session management.

* A configurable left hand menu bar - the contents can be set in an editable [[WebMenu]] topic - one for the %TWIKIWEB% web and optionally one for other webs. See [[WebMenuFormat]] for details. , supplied one cover TWiki, Main and Test Webs

Add a setting to the [[WebPreferences]] page, the LOGO variable indicates what logo to use.

> * <code>**Set LOGO = %PUBURL%/%MAINWEB%/LogoTopic/logo.gif**</code>

Please note:

* The [[TigerSkin]] is designed for use with IE 5.0 and 5.5 - not (yet) Netscape compatible. Although this version provides initial integration of the NS

* The [[TigerSkin]] purposely avoids using different colors for different webs - we think that this is desconcerting to novice users.

* The [[TigerSkin]] needs a TWiki beta release dated after 27 Jul 2001

* The [[TigerSkin]] uses the new <http://twiki.org/cgi-bin/view/Codev/TWikiTemplatingSystem>

An example logo is attached to this page - just download and edit to make your own logo. It should be named logo.gif. The overall site logo lives as an attachment hereto, individual web logos should be placed in pub/webname/logo.gif. Please be sure to acknowledge TWiki.org appropriately.

For help and advice, please email %MAINWEB%.SteveRoe or %MAINWEB%.JohnTalintyre

### <a name="_TOPIC_Settings"> %TOPIC% Settings </a>

Plugin settings are stored as preferences variables. To reference a plugin setting write <code>**%&lt;plugin&gt;\_&lt;setting&gt;%**</code>, i.e. <code>**%EMPTYPLUGIN\_SHORTDESCRIPTION%**</code>

* One line description, is shown in the %TWIKIWEB%.TextFormattingRules topic:
  * Set SHORTDESCRIPTION = Supports [[TigerSkin]]

* Max number of revisions to show on drop down menu
  * Set NUMREVISIONS = 5

* Debug plugin: (See output in `data/debug.txt`)
  * Set DEBUG = 0

## <a name="History"> History </a>

This is the [[TWiki/GnuSkin]] plugin. It's designed to more like a general [GNU](http://www.gnu.org) web page and less like the [[TWiki/TigerSkinPlugin]].

Lean &amp; simple and yet still good looking and stylish. The [[GnuSkinPlugin]] is a rip-off from the [[TigerSkinPlugin]] with a lot of the useless stuff removed. It is designed to be simple and functional and yet stylish enough to be used in production like environments.

The [[GnuSkin]] design is a rip-off [the Hurd website](http://hurd.gnu.org/), with a few bells and whistles from TWiki added.

See the [[GnuSkinPlugin]] page for more information about the [[GnuSkin]] features. Or take a look at the [[Know/WebHome]] for a hint of how it looks and feels. The [[GnuSkin]] plugin is a rip off from the [[TigerSkinPlugin]]. The main intentions are to simplify the design enough to get a basic and yet useful environment suitable for production use by [GNU](http://www.gnu.org/) projects. The [[GnuSkin]] makes use of most the [[WebMenu]] concept, first introduced by the [[TigerSkin]]. See it in action on the [[Know/WebHome]].

See it in action on the Hurd Wiki web at vmlinux.org, <http://vmlinux.org/twiki/bin/view/Hurd/WebHome>.

The [[GnuSkin]] is a rip-off from the TigerSkin with a lot of the flashy stuff removed. It is conceived to be simple and functional, yet stylish enough to be used in production like environments. Its design is currently a rip-off [the Hurd](http://hurd.gnu.org/) website, with a few bells and whistles from TWiki added.
