## <a name="GnuSkin_Download_amp_Installatio"> GnuSkin Download &amp; Installation Instructions </a>

Visit <http://twiki.org/cgi-bin/view/Plugins/GnuSkinInstall> on <http://twiki.org> for the latest and greatest. Both updated installation instructions and the latest ZIP files.

**_Briefly:_**

* Download the ZIP file from the Plugin web (see below)
* Unzip <code>**GnuSkin-1.0.0.zip**</code> in your twiki installation directory. Content:

<table border="1" cellpadding="1" cellspacing="0">
  <tr>
    <th bgcolor="#99CCCC"><strong>File:</strong></th>
    <th bgcolor="#99CCCC"><strong>Description:</strong></th>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td><code><b>data/TWiki/GnuSkin.txt</b></code></td>
    <td> Skin description </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td><code><b>data/TWiki/GnuSkinPlugin.txt</b></code></td>
    <td> Plugin description </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td><code><b>data/TWiki/GnuSkinPluginDev.txt</b></code></td>
    <td> Development notes &amp;amp; discus </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td><code><b>data/TWiki/GnuSkinInstall.txt</b></code></td>
    <td> Installation notes </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td><code><b>lib/TWiki/Plugins/GnuSkinPlugin.pm</b></code></td>
    <td> Plugin Perl module </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td><code><b>pub/TWiki/GnuSkin/add-attachment.png</b></code></td>
    <td> Attachment icon </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td><code><b>pub/TWiki/GnuSkin/bubble-LL.png</b></code></td>
    <td> Lower left round edege icon </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td><code><b>pub/TWiki/GnuSkin/bubble-LR.png</b></code></td>
    <td> Lower right round edege icon </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td><code><b>pub/TWiki/GnuSkin/bubble-UL.png</b></code></td>
    <td> Upper left round edege icon </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td><code><b>pub/TWiki/GnuSkin/bubble-UR.png</b></code></td>
    <td> Upper right round edege icon </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td><code><b>pub/TWiki/GnuSkin/edit.png</b></code></td>
    <td> Edit topic icon </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td><code><b>pub/TWiki/GnuSkin/folder.png</b></code></td>
    <td> Folder (more) icon </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td><code><b>pub/TWiki/GnuSkin/logo.png</b></code></td>
    <td> Default web logotype icon </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td><code><b>pub/TWiki/GnuSkin/page.png</b></code></td>
    <td> View topic icon </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td><code><b>pub/TWiki/GnuSkin/print.png</b></code></td>
    <td> View printable icon </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td><code><b>pub/TWiki/GnuSkin/rcs_diff.png</b></code></td>
    <td> View diffs icon </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td><code><b>pub/TWiki/GnuSkin/search.png</b></code></td>
    <td> Search topics icon </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td><code><b>pub/TWiki/GnuSkin/twiki.css</b></code></td>
    <td> Style Sheet, blue </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td><code><b>pub/TWiki/GnuSkin/twikiblue.css</b></code></td>
    <td> Default style </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td><code><b>pub/TWiki/GnuSkin/twikigreen.css</b></code></td>
    <td> Green style </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td><code><b>templates/edit.gnu.tmpl</b></code></td>
    <td> Edit topic template </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td><code><b>templates/preview.gnu.tmpl</b></code></td>
    <td> Topic preview template </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td><code><b>templates/rdiff.gnu.tmpl</b></code></td>
    <td> Topic diffs template </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td><code><b>templates/twiki.gnu.tmpl</b></code></td>
    <td> Snippets for genric templates </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td><code><b>templates/view.gnu.tmpl</b></code></td>
    <td> View topic template </td>
  </tr>
</table>

* Check any of the topics, e.g., the [[GnuSkin]] topic to verify installation.
* Test if the plugin is correctly installed:
  * Make sure the SKINHANDLER is set to Gnu and the
  * SKIN variable is set to gnu.

**_Comprehensively:_**

* Download the [[GnuSkin]]-X.Y.Z.zip, or gnuskin-X.Y.Z.tgz, archive from the list of attachments at the bottom of this page. (X.Y.Z is the version number).

* Unpack the archive inside your TWiki installation directory. (All the [[GnuSkin]] files have a Gnu substring embedded to ensure you do not overwrite any of TWik's original files.)

* In case you do not have the [[TigerSkin]] installed you also need to download and install the [[WebMenu]] package in the same directory. The [[GnuSkin]] and the [[TigerSkin]] shares the [[WebMenu]] format.(The WebMenu format is unlikely to change, and even if it does it will require a major version upgrade.)

* Edit the %TWIKIWEB%.WebMenu topic to set the contents of the menu bar. See the %TWIKIWEB%.WebMenuFormat for details.

* Add the following line to %TWIKIWEB%.TWikiPreferences or to any [[WebPreferences]] topic. Remember, six spaces an asterisk and the <code>**Set**</code> keyword to specify an option.

          * Set SKIN = gnu

* If using multiple skin handlers then the following line needs to be included in %TWIKIWEB%.TWikiPreferences to set the TWiki wide default or in a specific [[WebPreferences]] topic to use the Gnu Skin handler only for that Web.

          * Set SKINHANDLER = Gnu

* **Note:** If this is the first (and only) skin handler the TWiki skin handler defaults to procssing the SKIN unless SKINHANDLER is set to some value besides Gnu.
