<div>
  <center> [ <span style="background:"><font color="">Gnu Skin</font></span>[[GnuSkin]] | <span style="background:"><font color="">Gnu Skin</font></span>[[GnuSkin]] | <span style="background:"><font color="">Gnu Skin Plugin</font></span>[[GnuSkinPlugin]] | <span style="background:"><font color="">Gnu Skin Todo</font></span>[[GnuSkinTodo]] | <nop>GnuSkinReleaseNotes | <a href="http://savannah.gnu.org/projects/twiki-skins" target="_top">CVS</a> ] </nop></center>
</div>

## <a name="Release_Notes_for_the_GnuSkin"> </a> Release Notes for the [[GnuSkin]]

Here are the release notes for the [[GnuSkin]]. Latest releases first.

For current development efforts, see [[GnuSkinTodo]]

**_Credits To:_**

* TWiki:Main/EstebanManchado for the TWiki:Codev/PhotonSearch

* TWiki:Main/ColasNahaboo for the TWiki:Codev/SavemultiCgiScript

* All the countless users who keep helping tracking down bugs and gaving me useful and encouraging comments.

### <a name="Release_1_2"> Release 1.2 </a>

The current 1.x branch for the TWiki:Codev/AthensRelease of TWiki. This is currently HEAD of the CVS tree, but after the 1.2 release it will go into its own 1.x branch for separate maintenance.

* Documentation
  * Cleaned up the documentation - more useful information, less non-sense.
  * Documented all settings affecting [[GnuSkin]] beahviour.

* Added more "empty" templates that include the style sheet.

* Displays mouse-over help on Go/Search button.

* CSS fixes:
  * Visited links should not have the same color as non-visited links. <br /> Reported by TWiki:Main/PeterMasiar - 15 Jan 2003

* Implemented a better TWiki:Codev/GoIsSearch for the search field.
  * Used a modified version of TWiki:Codev/PhotonSearch by TWiki:Main/EstebanManchado

* Reintroduce the preview - people seem to want it back.
  * Uses the TWiki:Codev/SavemultiCgiScript by TWiki:Main/ColasNahaboo

* Fixed messed up PNG's that IE cannot display correctly.
  * IE looks better after this fix - NS4 however, is not affected. Perhaps supply a separate GIF patch for sites with lot of old NS4 clients?

* Display problem in NS 4.79 solved. Was caused by HTML being mangled resulting in a lost close tag for TD. <br /> Reported by TWiki:Main/StefanLindmark - 21 Feb 2003

* The [[SmiliesPlugin]] detects an emoticon in the hidden Gnu head and replaces it with an image, breaking the HTML.
  * FIXED, similar fix checked in. <br /> Reported by TWiki:Main/StefanLindmark - 21 Feb 2003

* The LINK directive is parsed wrong in the Perl module.
  * FIXED. Reported by TWiki:Main/ChrisWinters - 25 Jan 2003

* Moved the "Topic parents:" to the bottom of the page again. The default skin keeps it there and it messes up the look of 1.1 anyhow. This one will probably make a lot of people a bit upset - tough. This is GPL'ed code so fork away if you care or provide a patch to make it site/user configurable.

* "Cancel Edit" missing.
  * FIXED. Reported by TWiki:Main/JohnRouillard - 17 Dec 2002

* The disturbing JavaScript stuff from the edit template is finally removed. <br /> Reported by TWiki:Main/JohnRouillard - 17 Dec 2002

* Batched diffs, revisions to show when using "View Diffs".
  * IMPLEMENTED. Wished by various people: <br />Twiki:Main/GrantBow - 29 Dec 2002<br />TWiki:Main/JohnRouillard - 30 Dec 2002
  * To set a different amount in your home topic prefix the variable with GNUSKINPLUGIN\_
    * Set <code>**NUMREVISIONS = 2**</code> in the [[GnuSkinPlugin]] topic.

-- [[Main/JoachimNilsson]] - 02 Mar 2003
