## <a name="TWiki_Administration"> TWiki Administration </a>

The current implementation of %WIKITOOLNAME% is designed to never forget, that means all topic changes are under revision control and you can't delete or rename topics.

Nevertheless there are cases where you wish to delete topics. %WIKITOOLNAME% requires administrative stuff like that to be done on the shell level, so please ask your %WIKITOOLNAME% administrator to do that for you. A future version will allow administrators to do that on the browser level.

### <a name="How_to_Rename_or_Delete_a_Topic"> How to Rename or Delete a Topic </a>

* Go to the topic you want to rename / delete.
* Find out the back-links to this page from _Ref-By_ . Modify other topics if needed.
* Telnet to the %WIKITOOLNAME% installation.
* cd to <code>**twiki/data**</code> and then to the web where the topic is located. Rename / delete the topic ( <code>**name.txt**</code> ) and repository file ( <code>**name.txt,v**</code> ). **_Hint:_** Instead of deleting a topic you could create a <code>**Trash**</code> web and move topics/repositories to this web. (A future version of TWiki might have a Trash web.)
* Edit the <code>**.changes**</code> file and rename / delete all occurrences of the topic. **_Note:_** There might be several lines of the topic.
* cd to <code>**twiki/pub**</code> and then to the web where the topic is located. Rename / delete the topic attachment directory if present.

### <a name="How_to_add_a_New_Web"> How to add a New Web </a>

* See [[TWikiDocumentation]]

### <a name="How_to_Rename_or_Delete_a_Web"> How to Rename or Delete a Web </a>

* It is advisable not to rename the %WIKITOOLNAME%.%MAINWEB% web.
* Be aware that other webs might link to the web you want to rename / delete. Search each web for links to this web, i.e. search all webs for `Obsolete.` (include the period, this is to find topics like `Obsolete.SomeTopic` ). Take measures if necessary.
* Edit the %WIKIPREFSTOPIC% topic and rename / delete the web from the `WIKIWEBLIST` variable.
* Edit the [[TWikiWebsTable]] topic and rename / delete the web from the table.
* Telnet to the %WIKITOOLNAME% installation.
* cd to <code>**twiki/data**</code> and rename / delete the web directory.
* cd to <code>**twiki/templates**</code> and rename / delete the web directory if present.
* cd to <code>**twiki/pub**</code> and rename / delete the web directory if present.

-- [[Main/PeterThoeny]] - 03 Mar 2001 <br />
