%TOC% %STARTINCLUDE%

## <a name="Site_Usage_Statistics"> Site Usage Statistics </a>

* You can automatically generate usage statistics for all webs. To enable this:
  * Make sure variable `$doLogTopicView, $doLogTopicSave and $doLogTopicUpload` in `wikicfg.pm` are set. This will generate log entries in file `twiki/data/log<date>.txt` .
  * Topic [[WebStatistics]] must be present in all webs where you want to have statistics. You can use the topic in the Main web as a template.
  * Call the `twiki/bin/statistics` script from a cron job, once a day is recommended. This will update the [[WebStatistics]] topics in all webs.
  * **_Attention:_** The script must run as the same user as the CGI scripts are running, which is user `nobody` on most systems. Example crontab entry: <br />`0 0 * * * (cd /path/to/TWiki/bin; ./statistics >/dev/null 2>&1)`
  * There is a workaround in case you can't run the script as user `nobody` : Run the utility `twiki/bin/geturl` in your cron job and specify the URL of the `twiki/bin/statistics` script as a parameter. Example: <br />`0 0 * * * (cd /path/to/TWiki/bin; ./geturl mydomain.com /urlpath/to/TWiki/bin/statistics >/dev/null 2>&1)`
  * The `twiki/bin/statistics` script can also be executed as a CGI script, just enter the URL in your browser. Examples:
    * Update current month for all webs: <br />`http://mydomain.com/twiki/bin/statistics`
    * Update current month for Main web only: <br />`http://mydomain.com/twiki/bin/statistics/Main`
    * Update January 2000 for Main web: <br />`http://mydomain.com/twiki/bin/statistics/Main?logdate=200001`

-- [[MikeMannix]] - 01 Sep 2001
