## <a name="TWiki_Starting_Points"> TWiki Starting Points </a>

**%WIKITOOLNAME%.%MAINWEB% Web:**

* ** %MAINWEB%.%WIKIUSERSTOPIC%: ** List of users of this %WIKITOOLNAME% web.
* %MAINWEB%.TWikiGroups: List of groups.

<form action="%SCRIPTURLPATH%/search%SCRIPTSUFFIX%/%WEB%/">
  <ul>
    <li> %MAINWEB%.WebSearch: Full text search of the %WIKITOOLNAME%.%MAINWEB% web. </li>
    <li><input name="search" size="32" type="text" /> <input type="submit" value="Search" />    (More options in <span style="background:"><font color="">Web Search</font></span>[[WebSearch]]) </li>
    <li> %MAINWEB%.WebChanges: Find out recent modifications to the %WIKITOOLNAME%.%MAINWEB% web. </li>
    <li> %MAINWEB%.WebIndex: Display all %WIKITOOLNAME%.%MAINWEB% topics in alphabetical order. See also the faster %MAINWEB%.WebTopicList </li>
    <li> %MAINWEB%.%NOTIFYTOPIC%: Subscribe to be automatically notified when something changes in the %WIKITOOLNAME%.%MAINWEB% web. </li>
    <li> %MAINWEB%.%STATISTICSTOPIC%: View access statistics of the %WIKITOOLNAME%.%MAINWEB% web. </li>
    <li> %MAINWEB%.%WEBPREFSTOPIC%: Preferences of the %WIKITOOLNAME%.%MAINWEB% web. </li>
  </ul>
</form>

**%WIKITOOLNAME%.%TWIKIWEB% Web:**

* ** %TWIKIWEB%.WelcomeGuest: ** Look here first to get you rolling on %WIKITOOLNAME%.
* %TWIKIWEB%.TWikiSite: Explains what a %WIKITOOLNAME% site is.
* %TWIKIWEB%.TWikiRegistration: Create your account in order to edit topics.
* %TWIKIWEB%.ChangePassword: Change your account password.
* %TWIKIWEB%.ResetPassword: Forgot your password?
* Documentation:
  * %TWIKIWEB%.TWikiFAQ has a list of frequently asked questions.
  * %TWIKIWEB%.TWikiDocumentation is the implementation documentation of TWiki.
  * %TWIKIWEB%.TWikiHistory shows TWiki's implementation history.
* How to edit text:
  * %TWIKIWEB%.GoodStyle: Things to consider when changing text.
  * %TWIKIWEB%.TextFormattingRules: Easy to learn rules for editing text.
  * %TWIKIWEB%.TextFormattingFAQ: Answers to frequently asked questions about text formatting.
* %TWIKIWEB%.%WIKIPREFSTOPIC%: %WIKITOOLNAME% site-level preferences
