I would like to see only the difference between two revisions from the [[WebChanges]] page.

-- [[Main/JamesAMorrison]] - 16 Jan 2003

Congratulations on your first Wiki page. I'll see what I can do! This would have to be some kind of nested search.

You can also hack a URL to a non-existing page. It will prompt to create it and you just click create. I should have told you that way to create a page as well but I forgot about it. :-)

-- [[Main/GrantBow]] - 16 Jan 2003

Maybe you're a bit confused, James. The [[WebChanges]] topic lists what topics in a web that have been changed recently (maybe the "recently" needs a bit of modification?). I think you're after the "View Diffs" function, which currently shows diffs from the 5 last revisions of a selected topic. This can, of course, be changed with the GNUskin.

If you check out my home topic, | [[Main/JoachimNilsson]] | [[WIKIHOMEURLMainJoachimNilssonrawon]] |, you can see how I used a preference variable to change the displayed number of revisions to 2. Personal settings can always be made in the home topic like this. For **inspiration** you can look at the [[WebPreferences]] and the [[TWikiPreferences]].

-- [[Main/JoachimNilsson]] - 16 Jan 2003

I don't think he's confused, it's just a new feature. Our discussion also generated the [[TWikiChanges]] topic. We talked about this on IRC a bit. Perhaps TWiki:Codev/GlobalChangesList might be of help.

-- [[Main/GrantBow]] - 16 Jan 2003

I don't understand, but I'll start reading again to see what it is you two are talking about ...

... is it that James wants to see _"the changes to the Wiki since I last looked"_?

-- [[Main/JoachimNilsson]] - 16 Jan 2003

Sorry, I need to read more closely. He asked me for a page that has the diffs for the entire website. I created a 7x [[WebChanges]] file in [[TWikiChanges]] (still sorted by web). Then we talked about a page that had the actual diffs for each page in one big page, a global diff file for the site. RSS might be the right answer for that kind of thing. It was a short IRC discussion and I'm probably (unduly) filling in the blanks.

What James wrote was "only the difference between two revisions from the [[WebChanges]] page" which is indeed confusing. I don't think James understands that the [[WebChanges]] page is the result of a real-time search. If the [[WebChanges]] page had revisions, then it might give a global diff for the website.

James, so now I don't know what you really wanted. Can you please clarify?

-- [[Main/GrantBow]] - 17 Jan 2003
