These installation steps use the Apache web server on Linux as an example. TWiki should run on other web servers and Unix systems as well. (TWiki on Windows is possible, but has not been documented well. More on that at <http://TWiki.org/cgi-bin/view/Codev/TWikiOnWindows> )

**_Note:_** Below installation steps assume user `nobody` for all files manupulated by the cgi scripts (executed by the web server), and user `twiki` for all other files. You need to replace user `nobody` with an other user in case the web server executes the script with a different user ( default for Debian is `www-data` ). Also, you can substitute user `twiki` with your own user name.

**_Note:_** Below installation steps assume that you have control over the web server configuraton files. In case you don't (i.e. if you are installing it on a hosted server) follow the steps but use these directories instead:

<table border="1" cellpadding="1" cellspacing="0">
  <tr>
    <th bgcolor="#99CCCC"><strong>TWiki dir:</strong></th>
    <th bgcolor="#99CCCC"><strong>What it is:</strong></th>
    <th bgcolor="#99CCCC"><strong>Where to copy:</strong></th>
    <th bgcolor="#99CCCC"><strong>Example:</strong></th>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td><code>twiki/bin</code></td>
    <td> CGI bin </td>
    <td> cgi-bin enabled dir </td>
    <td><code>/home/smith/public_html/cgi-bin/twiki</code></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td><code>twiki/pub</code></td>
    <td> public files </td>
    <td> htdoc enabled dir </td>
    <td><code>/home/smith/public_html/pub</code></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td><code>twiki/data</code></td>
    <td> topic data </td>
    <td> outside of htdoc tree (for security) </td>
    <td><code>/home/smith/twiki/data</code></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td><code>twiki/templates</code></td>
    <td> web templates </td>
    <td> outside of htdoc tree (for security) </td>
    <td><code>/home/smith/twiki/templates</code></td>
  </tr>
</table>

Read <http://TWiki.org/cgi-bin/view/Codev/SourceForgeHowTo> in case you want to install TWiki on SourceForge.

Installation steps:

* Request the TWiki distribution (in Unix ZIP format) from <http://TWiki.org/download.html> .
* Create directory `/home/httpd/twiki` and unzip the TWiki distribution into this directory.
* The `twiki/bin` directory of TWiki must be set as a cgi-bin directory. Add `/home/httpd/twiki/bin` to file `/etc/httpd/httpd.conf` with only `ExecCGI` option.
* The `twiki/pub` directory of TWiki must be set so that it is visible as a URL. Add `/home/httpd/twiki` to file `httpd.conf` with normal access options (copy from `/home/httpd/html` ).
* Now add `ScriptAlias` for `/twiki/bin` and `Alias` for `/twiki` to file `httpd.conf` . <br />**_Note:_** The `ScriptAlias` **must** come before the `Alias` in Apache, otherwise it will fail to correctly set up `/twiki/bin/` , due to the fact that it sees that as being just another subdirectory of the `/twiki/` alias. <br />
* Here are example `httpd.conf` entries:

<pre> Script<nop>Alias /twiki/bin/ "/home/httpd/twiki/bin/"
 Alias /twiki/ "/home/httpd/twiki"
 &amp;lt;Directory "/home/httpd/twiki/bin"&amp;gt;
    Options +ExecCGI
    Set<nop>Handler cgi-script
    Allow from all
 &amp;lt;/Directory&amp;gt;
 &amp;lt;Directory "/home/httpd/twiki/pub"&amp;gt;
    Options Follow<nop>Sym<nop>Links +Includes
    Allow<nop>Override None
    Allow from all
 &amp;lt;/Directory&amp;gt;</nop></nop></nop></nop></nop></pre>

* Restart Apache by `/etc/rc.d/rc5.d/S85httpd restart` .
* Test if the `twiki/bin` directory is cgi-enabled:
  * Enter the URL of that directory into your browser ( `http://your.domain.com/twiki/bin` ). It is not set correctly as cgi-bin in case you get something like `"Index of /twiki/bin"` . It is OK if you get a message like `"Forbidden. You don't have permission to access /twiki/bin/ on this server."`
  * Execute the `testenv` script from your browser ( `http://your.domain.com/twiki/bin/testenv` ). It shows a table with all CGI environment variables and tests the settings in your `twiki/bin/wikicfg.pm` configuration file.
* Make sure PERL 5 and the PERL CGI library is installed on your system. Default location of PERL executable is `/usr/bin/perl` . In case PERL is installed in a different location, the first line of all perl scripts in the `twiki/bin` directory need to be changed (alternatively you can create a symbolic link from `/usr/bin/perl` ).
* To be able to edit the perl scripts and .tmpl files it is necessary to `chown` and `chgrp -R twiki` so all the files have the owner you want.
* The scripts execute as `nobody` . Set the file permission of all Perl scripts in the `twiki/bin` directory as executable to `-rwxr-xr-x` .
* Set the file permission of all files below `twiki/data` to 666 ( `-rw-rw-rw-` ).
* Set the file permission of the `twiki/data` directory and all its subdirectories to 777 ( `drwxrwxrwx` ).
* Set the file permission of the `twiki/pub` directory to 777 ( `drwxrwxrwx` ).
* Edit the file `twiki/bin/wikicfg.pm` and set the variables at the beginning of the file to your needs.
* Make sure RCS is installed. Set `$rcsDir` in `twiki/bin/wikicfg.pm` to mach the location of your RCS binaries.
* Point your browser at <http://your.domain.com/twiki/bin/view> and start TWiki-ing away!
* Note in case the cgi scripts must have a file extension like `.pl` or `.cgi`:
  * Add the extension to all the scripts (except for the `.pm` ones) in `twiki/bin`
  * Edit `wikicfg.pm` and set the file extension in the `$scriptSuffix` variable.
  * If you use `.htaccess`, edit the file and add the file extension to `edit`, `view`, `preview`, etc.
* Note in case the cgi scripts are **_not_** running as user `nobody`: The `*,v` RCS repository files delivered with the installation package are locked by user `nobody` . In case the user is different (e.g. `www-data` ), it is not possible to check in files, this has the effect that the topic version number does not increase when saving a topic. In this case you need to unlock all repository files and lock them as user `www-data` (check the rcs man pages), or simply delete all the repository files. A simple way to switch the locker of the RCS files is to use sed: <br />`for f in *,v; do sed 's/nobody/www-data/' $f > x; mv x $f; done`
* Security issue: Directories `twiki/data` , `twiki/templates` and all its subdirectories should be set so that they are **not** visible as a URL. (Alternatively, move the directries to a place where they are not visible, and change the variables in `twiki/bin/wikicfg.pm` accordingly)
* Enable email notification of topic changes, [Notification of Changes](TWikiDocumentation#notification) has more.
* Add the [TWiki:Main.PoweredByTWikiLogo](http://TWiki.org/cgi-bin/view/Main/PoweredByTWikiLogo) to your %MAINWEB%.WebHome topic.

* Optional: You can add new rendering rules or new %VARIABLES%. To insure an easy upgrade of TWiki it is recommended to do this customization in `twiki/bin/wikicfg.pm` , not `twiki/bin/wiki.pm` .

* Optional: If you are on a non authenticated server (i.e. not using SSL) and you would like to authenticate users:
  * Rename file `.htaccess.txt` in the `twiki/bin` directory to `.htaccess` and change it to your needs. For details consult the HTTP server documentation (for Apache server: [[1]](http://www.apache.org/docs/mod/directives.html), [[2]](http://www.mcs.kent.edu/system/web_help/htaccess/introduction.html)). **_Note:_** In case `.htaccess` does not have any effect you need to enable it: Add "AllowOverride All" to the Directory section of `access.conf` for your `twiki/bin` directory.
  * Copy the [[TWikiRegistrationPub]] topic to [[TWikiRegistration]]. You can customize the topic if needed. **_Note:_** You can delete or add new input tags to the registration form. The `name=""` parameter of the input tags must start with: `"Twk0..."` (if this is an optional entry), or `"Twk1..."` (if this is a required entry). This will ensure that the fields are processed correctly.

* Optional: You can automatically generate usage statistics for all webs. To enable this:
  * Make sure variable `$doLogTopicView, $doLogTopicSave and $doLogTopicUpload` in `wikicfg.pm` are set. This will generate log entries in file `twiki/data/log<date>.txt` .
  * Topic [[WebStatistics]] must be present in all webs where you want to have statistics. You can use the topic in the Main web as a template.
  * Call the `twiki/bin/statistics` script from a cron job, once a day is recommended. This will update the [[WebStatistics]] topics in all webs.
  * **_Attention:_** The script must run as the same user as the CGI scripts are running, which is user `nobody` on most systems. Example crontab entry: <br />`0 0 * * * (cd /path/to/TWiki/bin; ./statistics >/dev/null 2>&1)`
  * There is a workaround in case you can't run the script as user `nobody` : Run the utility `twiki/bin/geturl` in your cron job and specify the URL of the `twiki/bin/statistics` script as a parameter. Example: <br />`0 0 * * * (cd /path/to/TWiki/bin; ./geturl mydomain.com /urlpath/to/TWiki/bin/statistics >/dev/null 2>&1)`
  * The `twiki/bin/statistics` script can also be executed as a CGI script, just enter the URL in your browser. Examples:
    * Update current month for all webs: <br />`http://mydomain.com/twiki/bin/statistics`
    * Update current month for Main web only: <br />`http://mydomain.com/twiki/bin/statistics/Main`
    * Update January 2000 for Main web: <br />`http://mydomain.com/twiki/bin/statistics/Main?logdate=200001`

* To create a new web:
  * Use a name for the web consisting of characters `A..Z` , `a..z` but **not** in [[WikiNotation]].
  * Create a new template directory under `twiki/templates` .
  * Create a new data directory under `twiki/data` and check the file permission of the directory.
  * Copy the `Web*.txt` files from the `twiki/data/Main` directory to the new data directory, preserving the original files' owner, group and permissions ( on Unix use `cp -p` ). The data files must be writable by the owner the CGI scripts are running on ( usually `nobody` ). Hint: You can set permissions of `.txt` and `.txt,v` files to `-rw-rw-rw-` and then edit the topic using your browser, RCS will restore the file permission correctly when saving the topic.
  * Add the new web to the web list (visible in the upper right corner of each topic) by editing the site-level preferences %TWIKIWEB%.%WIKIPREFSTOPIC%:
    * Add the new web to the WIKIWEBLIST variable.
  * Add the new web to the web table (at the bottom of each [[WebHome]] topic) by editing the %TWIKIWEB%.TWikiWebsTable topic.
  * Change the web preferences by editing the WebPreferences topic of the new web:
    * Set the WEBBGCOLOR variable to a color of your taste. The number represents the unique color for the web (consult an HTML book for colors.)
    * Customize the WEBTOPICLIST variable to contain the web specific links you prefer.
    * Optional: Set the WEBCOPYRIGHT variable to have a web-specific copyright text (at the bottom of each topic).
  * If needed, create customized templates in the new templates directory. (Non existing templates are inherited from `twiki/templates` )
  * If you want to use a category table, copy the three files `twikicatitems.tmpl` , `twikicatedit.tmpl` and `twikicatview.tmpl` from the `twiki/templates/Know` directory to the new templates directory, and customize it. More on that in [TWiki Category Table](TWikiDocumentation#category).
  * In case you want usage statistics for this web: Copy file `WebStatistics.txt` from the `twiki/data/Main` directory to the new data directory. Edit topic WebStatistics in the new web and delete old usage entries.

Here are contents of directories showing file permissions. Please note that this is for debugging reasons only and does not exactly reflect the distribution:

Directory `twiki/bin` :

    drwxrwxr-x   2 twiki twiki   4096 Jun 17 16:34 .
    drwxrwxr-x   3 twiki twiki   4096 Jun 17 16:34 ..
    -rw-rw-r--   1 twiki twiki    650 Feb 10  2000 .htaccess
    -rwxrwxr-x   1 twiki twiki   4322 Mar 12 00:31 attach
    -rwxrwxr-x   1 twiki twiki   1426 Jun 20 19:52 delete
    -rwxrwxr-x   1 twiki twiki   9001 Jul 28 11:03 edit
    -rwxrwxr-x   1 twiki twiki   1811 Mar 11 02:27 geturl
    -rwxrwxr-x   1 twiki twiki   5006 Mar 11 02:41 mailnotify
    -rwxrwxr-x   1 twiki twiki   1769 Mar 11 03:07 oops
    -rwxrwxr-x   1 twiki twiki   6890 Jun 21 19:58 preview
    -rwxrwxr-x   1 twiki twiki   7606 Mar 31 18:30 rdiff
    -rwxrwxr-x   1 twiki twiki   8349 Jun 21 18:12 register
    -rwxrwxr-x   1 twiki twiki   2693 Jul  5 14:32 save
    -rwxrwxr-x   1 twiki twiki   3831 Jul 20 12:13 search
    -rwxrwxr-x   1 twiki twiki   9835 Jun 20 19:03 statistics
    -rwxrwxr-x   1 twiki twiki    509 Feb  7  2000 testenv
    -rwxrwxr-x   1 twiki twiki  14543 Jul 20 18:46 upload
    -rwxrwxr-x   1 twiki twiki   4755 May 22 18:11 view
    -rwxrwxr-x   1 twiki twiki   1689 Jun 20 20:10 viewfile
    -rw-rw-r--   1 twiki twiki  34123 Nov  1 15:43 wiki.pm
    -rw-rw-r--   1 twiki twiki   7234 Oct 23 00:34 wikiaccess.pm
    -rw-rw-r--   1 twiki twiki  11719 Oct 28 21:58 wikicfg.pm
    -rw-rw-r--   1 twiki twiki   6441 Nov  1 23:13 wikiprefs.pm
    -rw-rw-r--   1 twiki twiki  13160 Oct 27 14:53 wikisearch.pm
    -rw-rw-r--   1 twiki twiki  10540 Oct 28 21:43 wikistore.pm

Directory `twiki/templates/` :

    drwxrwxr-x   4 twiki twiki   4096 Aug  3 01:17 .
    drwxrwxr-x   4 twiki twiki   4096 Aug 19 18:38 ..
    drwxrwxr-x   2 twiki twiki   4096 Jun 17 16:35 Know
    drwxrwxr-x   2 twiki twiki   4096 May  1 01:24 Main
    -rw-rw-r--   1 twiki twiki   2688 Aug 15 18:15 attach.tmpl
    -rw-rw-r--   1 twiki twiki   1283 Jul 20 15:56 attachtable.tmpl
    -rw-rw-r--   1 twiki twiki   1907 Jul 28 16:41 changes.tmpl
    -rw-rw-r--   1 twiki twiki   2265 Aug 15 17:57 edit.tmpl
    -rw-rw-r--   1 twiki twiki    965 Feb  8  2000 mailnotify.tmpl
    -rw-rw-r--   1 twiki twiki     30 Jan 13  1999 notedited.tmpl
    -rw-rw-r--   1 twiki twiki    940 Jul 20 15:59 notext.tmpl
    -rw-rw-r--   1 twiki twiki    907 Jul 20 16:01 notwiki.tmpl
    -rw-rw-r--   1 twiki twiki    341 Mar  8 11:39 noweb.tmpl
    -rw-rw-r--   1 twiki twiki   1000 Mar  8 11:40 oops.tmpl
    -rw-rw-r--   1 twiki twiki   1043 Oct 23 19:17 oopsaccesschange.tmpl
    -rw-rw-r--   1 twiki twiki   1036 Oct 23 19:17 oopsaccessview.tmpl
    -rw-rw-r--   1 twiki twiki    914 Mar  8 11:40 oopsdel.tmpl
    -rw-rw-r--   1 twiki twiki   1423 May 29 01:23 oopslocked.tmpl
    -rw-rw-r--   1 twiki twiki   1067 Mar  8 11:41 oopsregexist.tmpl
    -rw-rw-r--   1 twiki twiki    955 Mar  8 11:41 oopsregpasswd.tmpl
    -rw-rw-r--   1 twiki twiki    966 Mar  8 11:41 oopsregrequ.tmpl
    -rw-rw-r--   1 twiki twiki   1244 Apr 28 17:11 oopsregthanks.tmpl
    -rw-rw-r--   1 twiki twiki   1003 Jul 22 12:48 oopsregwiki.tmpl
    -rw-rw-r--   1 twiki twiki   1607 Mar  8 11:42 oopsrev.tmpl
    -rw-rw-r--   1 twiki twiki    949 Mar  8 11:43 oopsupload.tmpl
    -rw-rw-r--   1 twiki twiki   1735 Aug 15 18:14 preview.tmpl
    -rw-rw-r--   1 twiki twiki   1682 Aug 15 18:14 rdiff.tmpl
    -rw-rw-r--   1 twiki twiki    530 Jul 22 12:10 register.tmpl
    -rw-rw-r--   1 twiki twiki    690 Apr 28 16:53 registernotify.tmpl
    -rw-rw-r--   1 twiki twiki   1900 Aug 15 18:15 search.tmpl
    -rw-rw-r--   1 twiki twiki   1785 Aug 15 18:15 searchbookview.tmpl
    -rw-rw-r--   1 twiki twiki   1559 Aug 19 02:53 view.tmpl

Directory `twiki/templates/Know` (has a TWiki Category Table) :

    drwxrwxr-x   2 twiki   twiki   4096 Jun 17 16:35 .
    drwxrwxr-x   4 twiki   twiki   4096 Aug  3 01:17 ..
    -rw-rw-r--   1 twiki   twiki    446 Jun  7  1999 notedited.tmpl
    -rw-rw-r--   1 twiki   twiki    206 Jun  7  1999 twikicatedit.tmpl
    -rw-rw-r--   1 twiki   twiki   1068 Aug 18 18:26 twikicatitems.tmpl
    -rw-rw-r--   1 twiki   twiki    231 Jun  7  1999 twikicatview.tmpl

Directory `twiki/data/` :

    drwxrwxrwx   6 nobody  nobody  4096 Aug  3 01:09 .
    drwxrwxr-x   4 twiki   twiki   4096 Aug 19 18:38 ..
    -rw-rw-r--   1 nobody  nobody    51 Apr 21 16:48 .htpasswd
    drwxrwxrwx   2 nobody  nobody  4096 Aug 20 17:18 Know
    drwxrwxrwx   2 nobody  nobody  4096 Aug 19 04:15 Main
    drwxrwxrwx   2 nobody  nobody  4096 Aug 20 17:56 TWiki
    -rw-rw-rw-   1 twiki   twiki      1 Mar 11 04:19 debug.txt
    -rw-r--r--   1 nobody  nobody  1516 Aug 20 17:56 log200008.txt

Part of directory `twiki/data/Main` :

    drwxrwxrwx   2 nobody  nobody  4096 Aug 19 04:15 .
    drwxrwxrwx   6 nobody  nobody  4096 Aug  3 01:09 ..
    -rw-rw-rw-   1 twiki twiki     3716 Aug 19 02:19 .changes
    -rw-rw-rw-   1 twiki twiki        9 Aug 19 02:45 .mailnotify
    -rw-r--r--   1 nobody  nobody   358 Aug 18 17:22 OfficeLocations.txt
    -r--r--r--   1 nobody  nobody   878 Aug 18 17:22 OfficeLocations.txt,v
    -rw-r--r--   1 nobody  nobody   680 Aug 18 17:36 TWikiGuest.txt
    -r--r--r--   1 nobody  nobody  1989 Aug 18 17:36 TWikiGuest.txt,v
    -rw-r--r--   1 nobody  nobody   459 Aug 18 17:19 TWikiUsers.txt
    -r--r--r--   1 nobody  nobody  3840 Aug 18 17:19 TWikiUsers.txt,v
    -rw-r--r--   1 nobody  nobody    95 Aug 19 03:06 WebChanges.txt
    -r--r--r--   1 nobody  nobody   284 Aug 19 03:06 WebChanges.txt,v
    -rw-r--r--   1 nobody  nobody  1853 Aug 18 18:08 WebHome.txt
    -r--r--r--   1 nobody  nobody  6523 Aug 18 18:08 WebHome.txt,v
    -rw-r--r--   1 nobody  nobody    56 Aug 18 17:21 WebIndex.txt
    -r--r--r--   1 nobody  nobody   245 Aug 18 17:21 WebIndex.txt,v
    -rw-r--r--   1 nobody  nobody   495 Aug 18 17:40 WebNotify.txt
    -r--r--r--   1 nobody  nobody  1896 Aug 18 17:40 WebNotify.txt,v
    -rw-r--r--   1 nobody  nobody  1904 Aug 19 01:01 WebPreferences.txt
    -r--r--r--   1 nobody  nobody  3108 Aug 19 01:01 WebPreferences.txt,v
    -rw-r--r--   1 nobody  nobody  5553 Aug 19 02:30 WebSearch.txt
    -r--r--r--   1 nobody  nobody  8406 Aug 19 02:30 WebSearch.txt,v
    -rw-r--r--   1 nobody  nobody   729 Aug 18 17:41 WebStatistics.txt
    -r--r--r--   1 nobody  nobody  1129 Aug 18 17:41 WebStatistics.txt,v

Directory `twiki/pub/` :

    drwxrwxrwx   6 nobody  nobody  4096 Aug  3 01:21 .
    drwxrwxr-x   3 twiki   twiki   4096 Jun 17 16:35 ..
    drwxrwxrwx   3 nobody  nobody  4096 Jun 17 16:35 Know
    drwxrwxrwx   2 nobody  nobody  4096 Aug  3 01:21 Main
    drwxrwxrwx   3 nobody  nobody  4096 Aug  3 01:21 TWiki
    -rw-rw-r--   1 twiki   twiki   1078 Jan 14  2000 favicon.ico
    drwxrwxr-x   2 twiki   twiki   4096 Jun 17 16:35 icn
    -rw-rw-r--   1 twiki   twiki   3016 Oct  5  1999 twikilogo.gif
    -rw-rw-r--   1 twiki   twiki   5320 Oct  5  1999 twikilogo1.gif
    -rw-rw-r--   1 twiki   twiki   6125 Oct  5  1999 twikilogo2.gif
    -rw-rw-r--   1 twiki   twiki   7218 Oct  5  1999 twikilogo3.gif
    -rw-rw-r--   1 twiki   twiki   6710 Oct  5  1999 twikilogo4.gif
    -rw-rw-r--   1 twiki   twiki   2877 Jun  7  1999 wikiHome.gif

Directory `twiki/pub/icn/` :

    drwxrwxr-x   2 twiki   twiki   4096 Jun 17 16:35 .
    drwxrwxrwx   6 nobody  nobody  4096 Aug  3 01:21 ..
    -rw-rw-r--   1 twiki   twiki    801 Mar 26  1999 _filetypes.txt
    -rw-rw-r--   1 twiki   twiki    143 Mar  9  1999 bat.gif
    -rw-rw-r--   1 twiki   twiki    926 Mar  9  1999 bmp.gif
    -rw-rw-r--   1 twiki   twiki    141 Mar 25  1999 c.gif
    -rw-rw-r--   1 twiki   twiki    144 Mar  9  1999 dll.gif
    -rw-rw-r--   1 twiki   twiki    152 Mar  9  1999 doc.gif
    -rw-rw-r--   1 twiki   twiki    130 Mar  9  1999 else.gif
    -rw-rw-r--   1 twiki   twiki    876 Mar 26  1999 exe.gif
    -rw-rw-r--   1 twiki   twiki    147 Mar  9  1999 fon.gif
    -rw-rw-r--   1 twiki   twiki    142 Mar 25  1999 h.gif
    -rw-rw-r--   1 twiki   twiki    156 Mar  9  1999 hlp.gif
    -rw-rw-r--   1 twiki   twiki    186 Mar  9  1999 html.gif
    -rw-rw-r--   1 twiki   twiki    144 Mar 25  1999 java.gif
    -rw-rw-r--   1 twiki   twiki    148 Mar  9  1999 mov.gif
    -rw-rw-r--   1 twiki   twiki    150 Mar  9  1999 pdf.gif
    -rw-rw-r--   1 twiki   twiki    146 Mar 25  1999 pl.gif
    -rw-rw-r--   1 twiki   twiki    150 Mar  9  1999 ppt.gif
    -rw-rw-r--   1 twiki   twiki    148 Mar 25  1999 ps.gif
    -rw-rw-r--   1 twiki   twiki    148 Mar 25  1999 py.gif
    -rw-rw-r--   1 twiki   twiki    130 Mar  9  1999 ram.gif
    -rw-rw-r--   1 twiki   twiki    154 Mar  9  1999 reg.gif
    -rw-rw-r--   1 twiki   twiki    147 Mar 25  1999 sh.gif
    -rw-rw-r--   1 twiki   twiki    155 Mar  9  1999 sniff.gif
    -rw-rw-r--   1 twiki   twiki    149 Mar  9  1999 ttf.gif
    -rw-rw-r--   1 twiki   twiki    134 Mar  9  1999 txt.gif
    -rw-rw-r--   1 twiki   twiki    154 Mar  9  1999 wav.gif
    -rw-rw-r--   1 twiki   twiki    152 Mar  9  1999 wri.gif
    -rw-rw-r--   1 twiki   twiki    152 Mar  9  1999 xls.gif
    -rw-rw-r--   1 twiki   twiki    144 Mar  9  1999 zip.gif

-- [[Main/PeterThoeny]] - 24 Nov 2000 <br />
