To upgrade an earlier TWiki version like `01 Sep 1999` to version `01 May 2000` you should do the following things:

* Back up your system.
* Update the templates in the `/templates` directory (and its subdirs):
  * Take the templates of the latest distribution as the base and merge your changes back into it.
* Update the Perl scripts in the `/bin` directory:
  * Take the scripts of the latest distribution as the base and merge your changes back into it. Do so also for `wikicfg.pm` because it has important changes as well.
* Update topics:
  * Copy the new Main. [[Main/TWikiPreferences]] topic (and `*,v` file) into your TWiki.Main web. Customize the topic to your needs.
  * Copy the new Main. [[Main/WebPreferences]], [[Main/WebStatistics]] topics (and `*,v` files) into all your webs. Customize all [[WebPreferences]] topics to your needs (e.g. web color).
  * Copy [[WebSearch]] into all your webs, or modify the existing ones. **_Reason:_** Some switches for search changed.
  * Copy the TWiki documentation into your Main web: Topics [[TWikiDocumentation]], [[TWikiUsernameVsLoginUsername]], [[TWikiVariables]], [[WebNotification]], [[TWikiCategoryTable]], [[TWikiImplementationNotes]], [[TWikiInstallationGuide]], [[TWikiUpgradeTo01May2000]], [[TextFormattingRules]], [[TWikiHistory]] .
  * Copy the registration topic into your Main web:
    * In case you are on an Intranet: Copy topic [[TWikiRegistration]] to Main.TWikiRegistration. Customize if needed.
    * In case you are on a public server: Copy topic TWikiRegistrationPub to Main.TWikiRegistration. Customize if needed.
  * Copy the Main. [[TWikiWebsTable]] topic (and `*,v` file) into your Main web and customize it. **_Reason:_** The new release does not use the `*.inc` include files anymore.
  * Optionally: Search for <code>%INCLUDE%'s</code> in all your webs and change them to the new <code>%INCLUDE\{"file.ext"\}%</code> syntax. **_Note:_** Your old <code>%INCLUDE:"file.ext"%</code> syntax still works (the legacy rule is defined in `wikicfg.pm` .)
* Add the [PoweredByTWikiLogo](http://TWiki.org/cgi-bin/view/Main/PoweredByTWikiLogo) to your %WIKITOOLNAME% home page.

-- [[Main/PeterThoeny]] - 28 Apr 2000 <br />
