**%WIKITOOLNAME% Site-Level Preferences**

The following settings are **_site-level preferences_** , e.g. affecting all users in all %WIKITOOLNAME% webs. These preferences can be overwritten by **_web preferences_** (topic %WEBPREFSTOPIC% in each %WIKITOOLNAME% web) and **_user preferences_** (your personal topic, i.e. [[Main/TWikiGuest]] in the %WIKITOOLNAME%.%MAINWEB% web)

**_Preferences:_**

* List of %WIKITOOLNAME% webs: (the first line of a topic; to add a web see [[TWikiDocumentation]] and [[TWikiWebsTable]])
  * Set WIKIWEBLIST = [%WIKITOOLNAME%](%WIKIHOMEURL%) . \{ [Main](%SCRIPTURLPATH%/view%SCRIPTSUFFIX%/%MAINWEB%/WebHome) | [TWiki](%SCRIPTURLPATH%/view%SCRIPTSUFFIX%/%TWIKIWEB%/WebHome) | [Know](%SCRIPTURLPATH%/view%SCRIPTSUFFIX%/Know/WebHome) | [Test](%SCRIPTURLPATH%/view%SCRIPTSUFFIX%/Test/WebHome) \}

* List of topics of a web: (the second line of a topic, is overwritten by web preferences)
  * Set WEBTOPICLIST = %WEB% . \{ [Home](WebHome) | [Changes](WebChanges) | [Index](%SCRIPTURLPATH%/search%SCRIPTSUFFIX%/%WEB%/?scope=topic&regex=on&search=.*) | [Search](WebSearch) | Go <input name="topic" size="16" type="text" />
 \}

* Copyright notice:
  * Set WEBCOPYRIGHT = <font>Copyright © 2000 by the contributing authors. \\nAll material on this collaboration tool is the property of the contributing authors. <br /> \\nIdeas, requests, problems regarding %WIKITOOLNAME%? [Send](mailto:%WIKIWEBMASTER%?subject=%WIKITOOLNAME% Feedback) feedback. </font>

* Wiki webmaster email address:
  * Set WIKIWEBMASTER = <Peter@ThoenyNOSPAM.com>

* Web specific background color: (is overwritten by web preferences)
  * Set WEBBGCOLOR = #C0C0C0

* Exclude web from a `web="all"` search: (Set to `on` for hidden webs; is overwritten by web preferences)
  * Set NOSEARCHALL =

* Background color of non existing topic: ( default `cornsilk` or `#FFFFCE` )
  * Set NEWTOPICBGCOLOR = #FFFFCE

* Font color of non existing topic: ( default `#0000FF` )
  * Set NEWTOPICFONTCOLOR = #0000FF

* Horizontal size of text edit box: (can be overwritten by user preferences)
  * Set EDITBOXWIDTH = 70

* Vertical size of text edit box: (can be overwritten by user preferences)
  * Set EDITBOXHEIGHT = 15

* Default state of the **_link_** check box in the attach file page. Check box is initially checked if _Set ATTACHLINKBOX = CHECKED_ , unchecked if empty ( _Set ATTACHLINKBOX =_ ). If checked, a link is created to the attached file at the end of the topic: (can be overwritten by user preferences)
  * Set ATTACHLINKBOX =

* http-equiv meta tags for **_view_**, **_rdiff_**, **_attach_**, **_search\*_** scripts:
  * Set HTTP\_EQUIV\_ON\_VIEW =

* http-equiv meta tags for **_edit_** script. Example to expire immediately: <br /><code>Set HTTP\_EQUIV\_ON\_EDIT = &lt;meta http-equiv="Expires" content="%GMTIME\{"day month, year - hour:min:sec"\}% GMT"&gt;</code>
  * Set HTTP\_EQUIV\_ON\_EDIT =

* http-equiv meta tags for **_preview_** script:
  * Set HTTP\_EQUIV\_ON\_PREVIEW =

**_Notes:_**

* A preference is defined as: <br />`6 spaces * Set NAME = value`<br /> Example:
  * Set WEBBGCOLOR = #FFFFC0
* Preferences are used as %TWIKIWEB%.TWikiVariables by enclosing the name in percent signs. Example:
  * When you write variable <code>%WEBBGCOLOR%</code> , it gets expanded to `%WEBBGCOLOR%` .
* The sequential order of the preference settings is significant. Define preferences that use other preferences first, i.e. set <code>WEBCOPYRIGHT</code> before <code>WIKIWEBMASTER</code> since <code>%WEBCOPYRIGHT%</code> uses the <code>%WIKIWEBMASTER%</code> variable.
* You can introduce new variables and use them in your topics and templates. There is no need to change the %WIKITOOLNAME% engine (Perl scripts).

**_Related Topics:_**

* %WEBPREFSTOPIC% has preferences of the %WIKITOOLNAME%.%WEB% web.
* %MAINWEB%.%WIKIUSERSTOPIC% has a list of user topics. User topics can have optional user preferences.
* %TWIKIWEB%.TWikiVariables has a list of common <code>%VARIABLES%</code> .
