%INCLUDE\{"DocsUserNote"\}%

# <a name="TWiki_Pages"> TWiki Pages </a>

%TOC%

Each page in a TWiki web is called a **_topic_**, defined by its meaningful, descriptive %TWIKIWEB%.WikiWord title.

## <a name="Page_Features"> Page Features </a>

A TWiki topic is a self-contained information unit rich in features:

* a [[WikiWord]] title that lets you:
  * instantly identify what the page is about
  * automatically link to it from other pages
* an edit-anywhere collaboration area where you can:
  * enter plain or fully-HTML formatted text
  * work with simple TWiki editing shorthand (that includes HTML mark-up and special TWiki functions)
  * include Web links, images, anything else you can put on a Web page
* an extra [[TWIKIWEBTWikiForms]] option:
  * store structured info alongside the free-form page content
  * use text fields and boxes, radio buttons, pulldown selector menus, checkboxes
  * select from one or many different input forms, with all data preserved
* a [[FileAttachment]] feature that lets you:
  * upload files through your browser to the TWiki server
  * attach any type of file (documents, images, applications) for viewing or downloading
  * make changes and update existing files
* [[TWIKIWEBTWikiSkins]] to customize the look of headers and footers:
  * apply skins across an entire TWiki web level, or to a single page
* browser-based controls for renaming, moving, and deleting pages:
  * rename a page and automatically update all the references to it, site-wide
  * move a page from one TWiki web to another
  * safely delete a topic to a special Trash web (invisible, but accessible to the TWiki administrators if needed)
* flexible [[TWIKIWEBTWikiAccessControl]]:
  * independently determine who can see, edit, rename, move or delete topics
  * set permissions by individual users and user groups
* revision control automatically saves topic changes:
  * uses the established standard RCS (Revision Control System)
  * efficiently stores every change made to the original version
  * allows comparison of changes between any two versions, and review of any version, as formatted or raw text
* referred-by searches that list all topics in a web or site wide that link to a particular page
* hierarchical parent-child topic navigation:
  * automatically links a new page as the "child" of the page it was created from
  * allows manual assignment of parent page from a list of all topics in the local web
  * offers navigation displays, by topic parent, or by related topic

The configuration of your TWiki site and your own user account determine which of these features you can use.

<a name="EditingPages"></a>

## <a name="How_to_create_and_edit_a_page"> How to create and edit a page </a>

Adding and editing information on existing pages, and creating new pages, is TWiki's main function.

* To modify a topic, click the <code>**[Edit]**</code> link at the bottom left of every page. An editing window appears. Type away. Use the [[GoodStyle]] and [[TextFormattingRules]] links to get pop-up window help.
  * Click <code>**[Preview Changes]**</code> to see how your edit looks.
  * Click <code>**[Save Changes]**</code> to save.

* To add a new page, the simplest way is to type a new [[WikiName]] on an existing page. When the page is saved, the new name will appear highlighted, with a **?** at the end: click the **?** and a new edit window appears. Enter, preview and save as usual. The new page now exists.

<a name="OtherFeatures"></a>

## <a name="How_to_attach_files_and_use_othe"> How to attach files and use other features </a>

The color-coded control strip at the bottom of every page displays a series of links, including <code>**[Attach]**</code> (for attachments), <code>**[Ref-by]**</code> (to display referring pages), and <code>**[More]**</code>, which opens a new screen of additional controls).

* Most controls are self-explanatory, and also include explanatory text and help links.
* Experiment. You can always cancel or go Back whenever you like.
* Get in-depth info from the [[TWIKIWEBHOMETOPIC]], including the User's Guide and Reference Manual.

<a name="RenamingTopics"></a>

## <a name="How_to_rename_move_or_delete_a_p"> How to rename, move or delete a page </a>

You can now rename, move and delete individual topics from your browser. All three options are available by clicking **More** on the control strip at the bottom of every page. The access settings for a topic, web or entire site may be disabled for one or more of the three options. In any case, all three are similar and extremely self-explanatory.

1. On the topic you want to change, click **More** &gt; **Rename/move**
2. To move or delete: select the target web (`Trash` for delete)from the pull-down menu; otherwise, leave on the current web
3. To rename: fill in a new [[WikiName]] (otherwise, leave the current topic name)
4. To update occurrences of the topic name on other pages: From the list of pages that link to the topic, check or uncheck each entry as you desire - only checked links will be updated;
5. Click **Rename/move**: the topic will be renamed and links to the topic updated.
  * Any problems are listed ; you can change them later.
  * If a referring page can't be update because it's locked (ex: someone's editing), it appears on an alert. You can missed pages later by again pressing **Rename/move**.

%H% Deleting means moving the topic to the Trash web. Since all webs share the one Trash, name conflicts may come up.

%X% **NOTE:** Keep in mind that moving a topic from a view-restricted web to a public web or the Trash web will compromise security.

See: [[TWikiDocumentation]] for more details.

_Last updated: [[Main/MikeMannix]] - 30 Oct 2001_<br />
