%TOC% %STARTINCLUDE%

# <a name="TWiki_Upgrade_Guide"> TWiki Upgrade Guide </a>

_Upgrade from TWiki 01-Dec-2000 or TWiki 01-Sep-2001 to TWiki 01-Dec-2001 (previous to new full release)_

## <a name="Overview"> Overview </a>

This guide describes how to upgrade either from TWiki 01-Dec-2000 or TWiki 01-Sep-2001 to TWiki 01-Dec-2001.

* The latest version of TWiki (01-Dec-2001) is a small incremental release over the 01-Sep-2001 version.
* The 01-Sep-2001 version involves several major new features and numerous enhancements to the last full version (01-Dec-2000). The file system set-up is almost identical, but much of the underlying data structure and processes is new. With all the changes, the upgrade procedure is straightforward, and your existing page data is imported directly.

## <a name="Upgrade_Requirements"> Upgrade Requirements </a>

* To upgrade from a 01-Dec-2000 or 01-Sep-2001 standard installation to the latest 01-Dec-2001 TWiki Production Release, follow the instructions below.

* **_NOTE:_** To upgrade from a **pre-01-Dec-2000** TWiki, start with %TWIKIWEB%.TWikiUpgradeTo01Dec2000.

* To upgrade from a Beta of the new release, or if you made custom modifications to the application, read through all new reference documentation, then use the procedure below as a guideline.

## <a name="Major_Changes_from_TWiki_01_Sep_"> Major Changes from TWiki 01-Sep-2001 </a>

The latest 01-Dec-2001 release includes the following new features and enhancements compared to the 01-Sep-2001 release:

* **[[TWIKIWEBFormattedSearch]]** - New `format=""` parameter in <code>%SEARCH\{\}%</code> variable for database like reporting.
* Various bug fixes

## <a name="Major_Changes_from_TWiki_01_Dec_"> Major Changes from TWiki 01-Dec-2000 </a>

The 01-Sep-2001 release includes the following new features and enhancements compared to the 01-Dec-2000 release:

* **[[TWIKIWEBTWikiPlugins]]** - Easily install program enhancements using external plug-in modules. Developers can create plug-ins in Perl, with the [[TWIKIWEBTWikiPlugins]].
  * %TWIKIWEB%.InterwikiPlugin (preinstalled) - Link to external sites with text aliases, `SiteAlias:Page`; rules are defined in [[InterWikis]]. (Get more Plugins from the TWiki:Plugins web.)
* **[[TWIKIWEBTWikiTemplates]]** - New, more flexible template system.
* **[[TWIKIWEBTWikiSkins]]** - Overwrite template headers and footers; page content is unaffected.
* **[[TWIKIWEBTWikiMetaData]]** - New data format
* **[[TWIKIWEBTWikiForms]]** - Create multiple input forms per web; data is rendered in HTML tables.
* **[[TWIKIWEBManagingTopics]]** - Individual topics can be renamed, moved and deleted through the browser. Deleted topics are stored in a common Trash web.
* **[[TWIKIWEBTWikiUserAuthentication]]** - Change and reset passwords using forms.
* **[[TWIKIWEBTWikiVariables]]** - <code>%TOC%</code> variable generates a hierarchical table of contents from topic headings: &lt;h1&gt;...&lt;h6&gt;.
* **[[TWIKIWEBTWikiVariables]]** - Text formatting rules to generate automatic links from any combination of words and spaces.
* **[[TWIKIWEBFileAttachment]]** - Changes made to files attached to topics are now saved under revision control (RCS).
* **[[TWIKIWEBTWikiAccessControl]]** - Lets you to make the members of one user group - by default, TWikiAdminGroup - into TWiki superusers, with the ability to overwrite locked topics from the browser interface. (This gets around the problem of topic lockouts, caused by typos in access privilege definitions.)
* **HierarchicalNavigation** uses new [[TWIKIWEBTWikiMetaData]] variables to link hierarchically.
* **Convert to XHTML** - Pages are rendered for display in XHTML 1.0, as far as possible without breaking HTML 3.2 compliance.

## <a name="TWiki_Directory_Structure_and_Fi"> TWiki Directory Structure and File Names </a>

The TWiki directory structure remains the same, with one exception, the TWiki configuration file and Perl modules have been moved from the `twiki/bin` directory into it's own `twiki/lib` directory tree. The following files have been renamed and moved:

<table border="1" cellpadding="1" cellspacing="0">
  <tr>
    <th bgcolor="#99CCCC"><strong>From TWiki 01-Dec-2000:</strong></th>
    <th bgcolor="#99CCCC"><strong>To TWiki 01-Dec-2001:</strong></th>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td><code>twiki/bin/wikicfg.pm</code></td>
    <td><code>twiki/lib/TWiki.cfg</code></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td><code>twiki/bin/wiki.pm</code></td>
    <td><code>twiki/lib/TWiki.pm</code></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td><code>twiki/bin/wikiaccess.pm</code></td>
    <td><code>twiki/lib/TWiki/Access.pm</code></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td><code>twiki/bin/wikiprefs.pm</code></td>
    <td><code>twiki/lib/TWiki/Prefs.pm</code></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td><code>twiki/bin/wikisearch.pm</code></td>
    <td><code>twiki/lib/TWiki/Search.pm</code></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td><code>twiki/bin/wikistore.pm</code></td>
    <td><code>twiki/lib/TWiki/Store.pm</code></td>
  </tr>
</table>

A new `twiki/lib/TWiki/Plugins` directory contains the new Plugin modules.

## <a name="Standard_Upgrade_Procedure_from_"> Standard Upgrade Procedure from 01-Sep-2001 to 01-Dec-2001 Release </a>

This incremental update can be performed easily.

The following steps describe the upgrade assuming that `$TWIKIROOT` is the root of your current 01-Sep-2001 release.

1. Back up and prepare:
  * Back up all existing TWiki directories `$TWIKIROOT/bin`, `$TWIKIROOT/pub`, `$TWIKIROOT/data`, `$TWIKIROOT/templates`.
  * Create a temporary directory and unpack the ZIP file there.
2. Update files in TWiki root:
  * Overwrite all `*.html` and `*.txt` files in `$TWIKIROOT` with the new ones.
3. Update template files:
  * Overwrite all template files in `$TWIKIROOT/templates` with the new ones.
4. Update script files:
  * Overwrite all script files in `$TWIKIROOT/bin` with the new ones.
5. Update library files:
  * Overwrite the `TWiki.pm` library in `$TWIKIROOT/lib` with the new one.
  * Overwrite all `*.pm` library files in `$TWIKIROOT/lib/TWiki` and `$TWIKIROOT/lib/TWiki/Plugins` with the new ones.
6. Update data/TWiki files: (in case you want the updated docs)
  * Using your browser, merge the new TWiki.TWikiRegistration topic (or TWiki.TWikiRegistrationPub in case you used that one) into your existing TWiki.TWikiRegistration topic.
  * In the temporary `twiki/data/TWiki` directory where you unzipped the installation package:
    * Remove the files you do **not** want to upgrade: `TWikiPreferences.*`, `TWikiWebsTable.*`, `WebNotify.*`, `WebPreferences.*`, `WebStatistics.*` and all `WebTopic*` files.
    * In case the cgi-scripts are not running as user `nobody`: The `*,v` RCS repository files delivered with the installation package are locked by user nobody and need to be changed the user of your cgi-scripts, i.e. `www-data`. A simple way to switch the locker of the RCS files is to use sed: <br />`for f in *,v; do sed 's/nobody\:/www-data\:/' $f > x; mv x $f; done`
  * Move all remaining `*.txt` and `*.txt,v` files from the temporary `data/TWiki` directory to your `$TWIKIROOT/data/TWiki` directory.
7. Update pub/TWiki files:
  * Move the new `pub/TWiki/TWikiDocGraphics` directory into your `$TWIKIROOT/pub/TWiki` directory.

## <a name="Standard_Upgrade_Procedure_from_"> Standard Upgrade Procedure from 01-Dec-2000 to 01-Dec-2001 Release </a>

The idea is to have the new and old installation work in parallel so that you can test the new installation before switching over. That way you can make the switch on your live TWiki installation within one minute without affecting the users.

<table border="1" cellpadding="1" cellspacing="0">
  <tr>
    <th bgcolor="#99CCCC" colspan="2"><strong>Before Switch:</strong></th>
    <th bgcolor="#99CCCC" colspan="2"><strong>After Switch:</strong></th>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <th bgcolor="#99CCCC"><strong>Current 01-Dec-2000:</strong></th>
    <th bgcolor="#99CCCC"><strong>New 01-Dec-2001:</strong></th>
    <th bgcolor="#99CCCC"><strong>Obsolete 01-Dec-2000:</strong></th>
    <th bgcolor="#99CCCC"><strong>New 01-Dec-2001:</strong></th>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td><code>twiki/templates/</code></td>
    <td><code>twiki/templates2/</code></td>
    <td><code>twiki/templates1/</code></td>
    <td><code>twiki/templates/</code></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td><code>twiki/bin/</code></td>
    <td><code>twiki/bin/2/</code></td>
    <td> (overwritten) </td>
    <td><code>twiki/bin/</code></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td> (N/A) </td>
    <td><code>twiki/bin/lib/</code></td>
    <td> (N/A) </td>
    <td><code>twiki/lib/</code></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td><code>twiki/data/TWiki</code></td>
    <td><code>twiki/data/TWiki2</code></td>
    <td><code>twiki/data/TWiki1</code></td>
    <td><code>twiki/data/TWiki</code></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td colspan="4"> (other directories do not change) </td>
  </tr>
</table>

Alternatively you could move the existing installation away, install the 01-Dec-2001 release into it's place and move your webs and pub files back.

Follow this step-by-step guide to upgrade from the 01-Dec-2000 TWiki to the 01-Dec-2001 release, importing your original page data and related files:

### <a name="Pre_Upgrade_Preparation"> Pre-Upgrade Preparation </a>

Two major areas of TWiki functionality - [[TWikiTemplates]] and [[TWikiForms]] (input forms associated with a topic)- are entirely different in the new TWiki. If you've customized your templates or use Category Tables, read those sections _before_ starting your upgrade.

The following steps describe the upgrade on Unix. Windows setup is very similar. It's assumed that `$TWIKIROOT` is the root of your current 01-Dec-2000 release, ex: `export TWIKIROOT=/some/dir/`

### <a name="Step_1_Backup_amp_Unpack"> Step 1: Backup &amp; Unpack </a>

1. Back up all existing TWiki directories `twiki/bin`, `twiki/pub`, `twiki/data`, `twiki/templates`.
2. Create a temporary directory and unpack the ZIP file there: <br />`mkdir -p ~/tmp/`<br />`cp -p ~/downloads/TWiki20011201.zip ~/tmp/`<br />`cd ~/tmp/`<br />`unzip ~/tmp/TWiki20011201.zip`

### <a name="Step_2_Upgrade_TWiki_document_fi"> Step 2: Upgrade TWiki document files </a>

1. Move the document files to your TWiki root ( `twiki` ): <br />`mv ~/tmp/TWiki*.html $TWIKIROOT`<br />`mv ~/tmp/index.html $TWIKIROOT`<br />`mv ~/tmp/readme.txt $TWIKIROOT`<br />`mv ~/tmp/license.txt $TWIKIROOT`

### <a name="Step_3_Install_new_template_file"> Step 3: Install new template files </a>

1. Move &amp; rename the template directory to a temporary `twiki/templates2` directory, ex: <br />`mv ~/tmp/templates $TWIKIROOT/templates2`
2. Pay attention to the file and directory permissions (security issue). Set file permissions, ex: <br />`chmod 644 *.cgi`

### <a name="Step_4_Install_new_data_and_pub_"> Step 4: Install new data and pub files </a>

1. Move the TWiki web to a temporary TWiki2 `twiki/data/TWiki2` directory. Do the same to files attached to this web, ex: <br />`mv ~/tmp/data/TWiki $TWIKIROOT/data/TWiki2`<br />`mv ~/tmp/pub/TWiki $TWIKIROOT/pub/TWiki2`
2. Move &amp; rename the Know web to a temporary `twiki/data/Know2` directory, ex: <br />`mv ~/tmp/data/Know $TWIKIROOT/data/Know2`<br />`mv ~/tmp/pub/Know $TWIKIROOT/pub/Know2`
3. Move the \_default and Trash web, ex: <br />`mv ~/tmp/data/_default $TWIKIROOT/data`<br />`mv ~/tmp/data/Trash $TWIKIROOT/data`
4. Move the MIME types file, ex: <br />`mv ~/tmp/data/mime.types $TWIKIROOT/data`
5. Move the TWiki logo files, ex: <br />`mv ~/tmp/pub/*.gif $TWIKIROOT/pub`
6. Pay attention to the file permissions of the `TWiki2` and `Know2` directories and its files. The files must be writable by the cgi-scripts (usually user `nobody`).
7. In case the cgi-scripts are not running as user `nobody`: The `*,v` RCS repository files delivered with the installation package are locked by user nobody and need to be changed the user of your cgi-scripts, i.e. `www-data`. A simple way to switch the locker of the RCS files is to use sed: <br />`for f in *,v; do sed 's/nobody\:/www-data\:/' $f > x; mv x $f; done`

### <a name="Step_5_Install_new_CGI_scripts"> </a> Step 5: Install new CGI scripts

1. Move &amp; rename the CGI script directory to a temporary `twiki/bin/2` directory, ex: <br />`mv ~/tmp/bin $TWIKIROOT/bin/2`
2. If necessary, change the script names to include the required extension, ex: `.cgi`
3. Copy any additional scripts you might have from the 01-Dec-2000 release, ex: <br />`cp -p $TWIKIROOT/bin/somescript $TWIKIROOT/bin/2`
4. In case you use basic authentication, rename `.htaccess.txt` to `.htaccess` and customize it, ex: <br />`cd $TWIKIROOT/bin/2`<br />`mv .htaccess.txt .htaccess`<br />`diff ../.htaccess .`<br /> and merge the content
5. Pay attention to the file and directory permissions (security issue). Set permissions, ex: <br />`chmod 755 *.cgi`

### <a name="Step_6_Install_new_Perl_library_"> Step 6: Install new Perl library files </a>

1. Move the lib directory to a temporary `twiki/bin/lib` directory, ex: <br />`mv ~/tmp/lib $TWIKIROOT/bin`
2. Pay attention to the file and directory permissions (security issue). Set permissions, ex: <br />`chmod 644 *.pm`

### <a name="Step_7_Set_configurations_and_te"> Step 7: Set configurations and test installation </a>

1. Merge the content of the old `twiki/bin/wikicfg.pm` into the new `twiki/lib/TWiki.cfg` configuration file. Use the `diff` command to find out the differences, ex: <br />`cd $TWIKIROOT/bin/lib`<br />`diff ../wikicfg.pm TWiki.cfg`
2. Make sure to set the correct temporary location of templates and scripts, ex: <br />`$scriptUrlPath    = "/twiki/bin/2";`<br />`$templateDir      = "/home/httpd/twiki/templates2";`
3. Do **not** merge the functions `extendHandleCommonTags`, `extendGetRenderedVersionOutsidePRE`, `extendGetRenderedVersionInsidePRE` from the old `twiki/bin/wikicfg.pm`. This is now handled by the Default plugin `twiki/lib/TWiki/Plugins/Default.pm`
4. Test your new TWiki installation to see if you can view topics. Point your browser to the old installation and fix the URL to see the new installation, ex:
  * Old URL: `http://localhost/cgi-bin/view`
  * New URL: `http://localhost/cgi-bin/2/view`

### <a name="Step_8_Update_topics"> Step 8: Update topics </a>

You can do the following changes using your old TWiki 01-Dec-2000 or new TWiki 01-Dec-2001 installation. Pointing your browser to the old installation for edit-copy-edit-paste operations is recommended, so that users don't get surprised by meta data content showing up in topics.

1. Remember that you now have two TWiki webs:
  * The original `TWiki` web.
  * The new `TWiki2` web, which gets renamed to `TWiki` when you switch over the installation.
2. In case you customized `TWiki.TWikiRegistration`, merge your changes back into `TWiki2.TWikiRegistration`.
3. Copy `TWiki.TWikiWebsTable` to `TWiki2.TWikiWebsTable`.
  * Do the same for any other topics you might have created in the `TWiki` web.
4. In `TWiki2.TWikiPreferences`, merge the old `TWiki.TWikiPreferences` settings and customize it.
  * Add your webs to WIKIWEBLIST
  * Set the WIKIWEBMASTER
  * Set the SMTPMAILHOST
5. In `WebPreferences` of all webs, add or change the following web preferences: (see `TWiki.WebPreferences`)
  * Add a NOSEARCHALL in case you want to exclude the web from a `web="all"` search: <br />`* Set NOSEARCHALL = on`
  * In WEBTOPICLIST, remove the <code>%WEB% . \{\}</code> decoration from the list (it is now in the templates), ex: <br />`* Set WEBTOPICLIST = <a href="%HOMETOPIC%">Home</a>`<br />`  | <a href="WebChanges">Changes</a>`<br />`  | <a href="WebIndex">Index</a>`<br />`  | <a href="WebSearch">Search</a>`<br />`  | Go <input type="text" name="topic" size="16" />`
  * Add a these new preferences: <br />`* Set DENYWEBVIEW =`<br />`* Set ALLOWWEBVIEW =`<br />`* Set DENYWEBRENAME =`<br />`* Set ALLOWWEBRENAME =`
  * Set the FINALPREFERENCES: <br />`* Set FINALPREFERENCES = WEBTOPICLIST, DENYWEBVIEW, ALLOWWEBVIEW, DENYWEBCHANGE, ALLOWWEBCHANGE, DENYWEBRENAME, ALLOWWEBRENAME`
6. Optional: In `WebSearch` of all webs, replace content with this one line: <br /><code>%INCLUDE\{"%TWIKIWEB%.WebSearch"\}%</code>
7. Optional: In `WebChanges` of all webs, replace content with this one line: <br /><code>%INCLUDE\{"%TWIKIWEB%.WebChanges"\}%</code>

### <a name="Step_9_Customize_template_files"> Step 9: Customize template files </a>

**_NOTE:_** Skip this step if you did not customize your template files.

1. Remember that you have now two template directories:
  * The original `twiki/templates`.
  * The new `twiki/templates2`, which gets renamed to `twiki/templates` when you switch over the installation.
2. Customized templates and skins need to be upgraded to the new [[TWikiTemplates]]. This isn't difficult, but you have be familiar with the new template set-up before starting the conversion. The safest way is to use the new templates as a base and to merge your changes back. Changes in new templates:
  * Templates are now rendered by TWiki. You can use all [[TextFormattingRules]], but you have to escape unwanted ones. Also, remove empty lines unless you want a `=<p />` tag added.
  * Added [[TWikiMetaData]] rendering.
3. Form Templates replace the TWikiCategoryTables:
  * Create a replacement `WebForm` topic based on `twikicatitems.tmpl` in each web that uses a Category Table. See details in [[TWikiForms]] and compare with the settings in the <code>Know2.WebPreferences</code> topic. <br />**_NOTE:_** Do not remove the `twikicatitems.tmpl` file, it is still used for topics that are of the old format.
  * Searches need to be adjusted to deal with format change. It is possible to define a regular expression search that can deal at the same time with topics in the old format and new format.
    * **_Example:_** List all topics in the Know web that have a [[Know/TopicClassification]] of [[Know/PublicFAQ]]: <br /><tt>%SEARCH\{ "[T]opicClassification.\*?(td..td|value\\=).\*?[P]ublicFAQ" casesensitive="on" regex="on" nosearch="on" web="Know"\}%</tt><br /> (The `[T]` and `[P]` is done so that search does not find the topic where this search string is located in!)
    * **_Example:_** Create a link that lists all topics in the Know web with a [[Know/TopicClassification]] of [[Know/PublicFAQ]]: <br /><tt>[[%SCRIPTURL%/search%SCRIPTSUFFIX%/Know/?scope=text<br />&amp;search=%5BT%5DopicClassification.\*%3F%28td..td%7C<br />value%5C%3D%29.\*%3F%5BP%5DublicFAQ&amp;regex=on]\[All Public FAQ]]</tt><br />[[SCRIPTURLsearchSCRIPTSUFFIXKnowscopetextsearch5BT5DopicClassification3F28tdtd7Cvalue5C3D293F5BP5DublicFAQregexon]]
4. For each web that has a custom <code>**notedited.tmpl**</code> template, create an equivalent [[WebTopicEditTemplate]] to conform with the new [[TWIKIWEBTWikiTemplates]]. The new format replaces the `notedited.tmpl`, `notext.tmpl` and `notwiki.tmpl` templates.

### <a name="Step_10_Switch_over_to_new_insta"> Step 10: Switch over to new installation </a>

In this step, you move the working 01-Dec-2001 installation to the old 01-Dec-2000 installation, so that users don't have to change the URL.

1. Test your new 01-Dec-2001 installation under `twiki/bin/2/view` to make sure everything works as expected.
  * **_NOTE:_** Don't worry about the Plugins, they'll work after the switch.
2. Edit `$TWIKIROOT/bin/2/TWiki.cfg` and remove the `/2` from `$scriptUrlPath` and `$templateDir`, ex: <br />`$scriptUrlPath    = "/twiki/bin";`<br />`$templateDir      = "/home/httpd/twiki/templates";`
3. Rename the `TWiki2` web to `TWiki`, including attachments, ex: <br />`cd $TWIKIROOT/data`<br />`mv TWiki TWiki1`<br />`mv TWiki2 TWiki`<br />`cd $TWIKIROOT/pub`<br />`mv TWiki TWiki1`<br />`mv TWiki2 TWiki`
4. Rename the `templates2` directory to `templates`, ex: <br />`cd $TWIKIROOT`<br />`mv templates templates1`<br />`mv templates2 templates`
5. Move the `lib` directory one level up from `$TWIKIROOT/bin/lib` to `$TWIKIROOT/lib`, ex: <br />`cd $TWIKIROOT`<br />`mv bin/lib .`
6. Copy content of `bin/2` to `bin`, ex: <br />`cd $TWIKIROOT/bin`<br />`cp -p bin/2/* .`<br />`cp -p bin/2/.htaccess .`
7. Point your browser to the original URL and make sure the relocated 01-Dec-2001 installation works as expected: check browsing, searching and user registration.
8. Clean up and remove obsolete directories:
  * Remove directory `$TWIKIROOT/bin/2`
  * Remove directory `$TWIKIROOT/templates1`
  * Remove directory `$TWIKIROOT/data/TWiki1`
  * Remove directory `$TWIKIROOT/pub/TWiki1`
  * Remove temporary directory, ex: `~/tmp`

### <a name="Step_11_Test_the_TWiki_Plugins"> Step 11: Test the TWiki Plugins </a>

1. Test the new [[TWikiPlugins]] by checking the Plugins settings in [[TWikiPreferences]].
  * The <code>EmptyPlugin</code>, <code>DefaultPlugin</code>, and <code>InterwikiPlugin</code> should be preinstalled. To check the %TWIKIWEB%.InterwikiPlugin, go to its page.
2. If you have customized the functions `extendHandleCommonTags`, `extendGetRenderedVersionOutsidePRE` and `extendGetRenderedVersionInsidePRE` in `twiki/bin/wikicfg.pm`:
  * Merge those changes back into `twiki/lib/TWiki/Plugins/Default.pm`

### <a name="General_Format_Changes"> General Format Changes </a>

* The format of the <code>%GMTIME\{"..."\}%</code> and <code>%SERVERTIME\{"..."\}%</code> variables is now <code>**"$hour:$min"**</code> instead of `"hour:min"`. More in %TWIKIWEB%.TWikiVariables.

* [[TWikiVariables]]: Enhanced table syntax might have unwanted side effect: <code>| \*bold\* |</code> cells, `|  center aligned  |` and `|   right aligned |` cells, span multiple columns using `| empty cells |||`. More in [[TextFormattingRules]].

* Use <code>**Net::SMTP**</code> module instead of `sendmail` if installed.

* Use <code>**&lt;verbatim&gt; ... &lt;/verbatim&gt;**</code> tags instead of `<pre> ... </pre>` tags where appropriate. More in %TWIKIWEB%.TextFormattingRules.

* New variable <code>**%STARTINCLUDE%**</code> and <code>**%STOPINCLUDE%**</code> variables to control what gets included of a topic. More in %TWIKIWEB%.TWikiVariables.

* [[FileAttachment]] info is now stored as [[TWikiMetaData]].
  * Upgrading of imported pagess is done automatically after first edit, on save. "In memory" upgrade is done on topic view.
  * Attachments are now under revision control: `$attachAsciiPath` in `TWiki.cfg` defines which file types are stored in ASCII, otherwise, binary format is used. This means that the RCS version used should support binary files.

* Handling for topic-specific templates like `edit.new.tmpl` has been removed and replaced by template topics in the new [[TWikiTemplates]].

* A new file `warning.txt` file can appear in the `data` directory. It may contain diagnostic info identifying problems that need fixing. This file could get fairly large if you have a lot of problems your site - you can delete it at any time.

## <a name="Known_Issues"> Known Issues </a>

* Check TWiki:Codev/KnownIssuesOfTWiki01Dec2001 for known issues of TWiki 01 Dec 2001 (production release)
* Check TWiki:Codev/KnownIssuesOfTWiki01Sep2001 for known issues of TWiki 01 Sep 2001 (production release)

-- [[JohnTalintyre]] - 18 Jul 2001 <br /> -- [[MikeMannix]] - 12 Sep 2001 <br /> -- [[PeterThoeny]] - 03 Dec 2001 <br /> [http://www.shop263.com/i-1/901.htm 丁二酸二甲酯] [http://www.shop263.com/i-1/902.htm 艺雕刻用牛角] [http://www.shop263.com/i-1/903.htm 异丙胺] [http://www.shop263.com/i-1/904.htm 异丙苯] [http://www.shop263.com/i-1/905.htm 异丙醇] [http://www.shop263.com/i-1/906.htm 异丙醇铝] [http://www.shop263.com/i-1/907.htm 异丙基] [http://www.shop263.com/i-1/908.htm 异丙基黄药] [http://www.shop263.com/i-1/909.htm 异丙醚] [http://www.shop263.com/i-1/910.htm 异丁醇] [http://www.shop263.com/i-1/911.htm 异丁基黄药] [http://www.shop263.com/i-1/912.htm 异丁酰氯] [http://www.shop263.com/i-1/913.htm 异庚烷] [http://www.shop263.com/i-1/914.htm 异喹啉] [http://www.shop263.com/i-1/915.htm 异喹啉羧酸] [http://www.shop263.com/i-1/916.htm 异硫氰酸苯酯] [http://www.shop263.com/i-1/917.htm 异氰尿酸] [http://www.shop263.com/i-1/918.htm 异氰酸环已酯] [http://www.shop263.com/i-1/919.htm 异氰酸正丁酯] [http://www.shop263.com/i-1/920.htm 异氰酸酯] [http://www.shop263.com/i-1/921.htm 异戊醇] [http://www.shop263.com/i-1/922.htm 异戊二稀] [http://www.shop263.com/i-1/923.htm 异戊烯醇] [http://www.shop263.com/i-1/924.htm 异辛胺] [http://www.shop263.com/i-1/925.htm 异辛酸钾] [http://www.shop263.com/i-1/926.htm 异辛酸钠] [http://www.shop263.com/i-1/927.htm 异辛烷] [http://www.shop263.com/i-1/928.htm 阴离子型聚丙烯酰胺] [http://www.shop263.com/i-1/929.htm 阴燃增塑剂] [http://www.shop263.com/i-1/930.htm 银粉] [http://www.shop263.com/i-1/931.htm 银杏叶干浸膏] [http://www.shop263.com/i-1/932.htm 吲哚] [http://www.shop263.com/i-1/933.htm 印花布] [http://www.shop263.com/i-1/934.htm 荧光增白剂] [http://www.shop263.com/i-1/935.htm 萤蒽] [http://www.shop263.com/i-1/936.htm 萤光增白剂] [http://www.shop263.com/i-1/937.htm 硬脂酸] [http://www.shop263.com/i-1/938.htm 硬脂酸钡] [http://www.shop263.com/i-1/939.htm 硬脂酸钙] [http://www.shop263.com/i-1/940.htm 硬脂酸镉] [http://www.shop263.com/i-1/941.htm 硬脂酸铝] [http://www.shop263.com/i-1/942.htm 硬脂酸镁] [http://www.shop263.com/i-1/943.htm 硬脂酸铅] [http://www.shop263.com/i-1/944.htm 硬脂酸双铝] [http://www.shop263.com/i-1/945.htm 硬脂酸系列] [http://www.shop263.com/i-1/946.htm 硬脂酸锌] [http://www.shop263.com/i-1/947.htm 硬脂酸盐] [http://www.shop263.com/i-1/948.htm 硬质聚氨酯泡沫] [http://www.shop263.com/i-1/949.htm 油剂聚醚] [http://www.shop263.com/i-1/950.htm 油墨清洗剂] [http://www.shop263.com/i-1/951.htm 油漆] [http://www.shop263.com/i-1/952.htm 油漆工业用溶剂油] [http://www.shop263.com/i-1/953.htm 油酸] [http://www.shop263.com/i-1/954.htm 油酸酰胺] [http://www.shop263.com/i-1/955.htm 油田杀菌剂] [http://www.shop263.com/i-1/956.htm 油田钻井液] [http://www.shop263.com/i-1/957.htm 有机氟] [http://www.shop263.com/i-1/958.htm 有机氟化盐] [http://www.shop263.com/i-1/959.htm 有机硅] [http://www.shop263.com/i-1/960.htm 有机硅乳液] [http://www.shop263.com/i-1/961.htm 有机硅微乳] [http://www.shop263.com/i-1/962.htm 有机硅消泡剂] [http://www.shop263.com/i-1/963.htm 有机硅粘接剂] [http://www.shop263.com/i-1/964.htm 有机过氧化物引发剂] [http://www.shop263.com/i-1/965.htm 有机合成] [http://www.shop263.com/i-1/966.htm 有机磷肥] [http://www.shop263.com/i-1/967.htm 有机卤化物] [http://www.shop263.com/i-1/968.htm 有机膜涂料] [http://www.shop263.com/i-1/969.htm 有机酸] [http://www.shop263.com/i-1/970.htm 有机烷基磷酸酯类增塑剂] [http://www.shop263.com/i-1/971.htm 有机溴阻燃剂] [http://www.shop263.com/i-1/972.htm 有机颜料] [http://www.shop263.com/i-1/973.htm 有机液体] [http://www.shop263.com/i-1/974.htm 有磷氮] [http://www.shop263.com/i-1/975.htm 三氯乙烯] [http://www.shop263.com/i-1/976.htm 梭织机桨料] [http://www.shop263.com/i-1/977.htm 釉用色料] [http://www.shop263.com/i-1/978.htm 玉米淀粉] [http://www.shop263.com/i-1/979.htm 浴液基料] [http://www.shop263.com/i-1/980.htm 愈创木酚] [http://www.shop263.com/i-1/981.htm 愈创木酚磺酸钾] [http://www.shop263.com/i-1/982.htm 园艺喷洒油] [http://www.shop263.com/i-1/983.htm 原甲酸三甲酯] [http://www.shop263.com/i-1/984.htm 原甲酸三乙酯] [http://www.shop263.com/i-1/985.htm 原盐] [http://www.shop263.com/i-1/986.htm 原乙酸三甲酯] [http://www.shop263.com/i-1/987.htm 月桂氮酮] [http://www.shop263.com/i-1/988.htm 云母钛珠光颜料] [http://www.shop263.com/i-1/989.htm 匀染剂] [http://www.shop263.com/i-1/990.htm 杂环] [http://www.shop263.com/i-1/991.htm 皂粒] [http://www.shop263.com/i-1/992.htm 皂片] [http://www.shop263.com/i-1/993.htm 皂用脂肪酸] [http://www.shop263.com/i-1/994.htm 造纸助剂] [http://www.shop263.com/i-1/995.htm 增白剂] [http://www.shop263.com/i-1/996.htm 增稠剂] [http://www.shop263.com/i-1/997.htm 增塑剂] [http://www.shop263.com/i-1/998.htm 增炭剂] [http://www.shop263.com/i-1/999.htm 渣油阻垢剂] [http://www.shop263.com/i-1/1000.htm 粘合剂] [http://www.shop263.com/i-1/1001.htm 樟脑粉] [http://www.shop263.com/i-1/1002.htm 蔗糖八乙酸] [http://www.shop263.com/i-1/1003.htm 蔗糖脂肪酸酯] [http://www.shop263.com/i-1/1004.htm 蔗糖酯] [http://www.shop263.com/i-1/1005.htm 珍珠魚卵革] [http://www.shop263.com/i-1/1006.htm 真皮絨] [http://www.shop263.com/i-1/1007.htm 正丁醇] [http://www.shop263.com/i-1/1008.htm 正庚酸] [http://www.shop263.com/i-1/1009.htm 正庚烷] [http://www.shop263.com/i-1/1010.htm 正己烷] [http://www.shop263.com/i-1/1011.htm 正钛酸四丁酯] [http://www.shop263.com/i-1/1012.htm 正戊酸] [http://www.shop263.com/i-1/1013.htm 正戊烷] [http://www.shop263.com/i-1/1014.htm 正戊酰氯] [http://www.shop263.com/i-1/1015.htm 正辛胺] [http://www.shop263.com/i-1/1016.htm 正已烷] [http://www.shop263.com/i-1/1017.htm 织物阻燃] [http://www.shop263.com/i-1/1018.htm 脂肪胺] [http://www.shop263.com/i-1/1019.htm 脂肪醇硫酸钠] [http://www.shop263.com/i-1/1020.htm 脂肪酸] [http://www.shop263.com/i-1/1021.htm 植物脂肪酸] [http://www.shop263.com/i-1/1022.htm 纸浆脱墨漂白剂] [http://www.shop263.com/i-1/1023.htm 纸张磨光油] [http://www.shop263.com/i-1/1024.htm 中络黄] [http://www.shop263.com/i-1/1025.htm 中温沥青] [http://www.shop263.com/i-1/1026.htm 种子包衣剂] [http://www.shop263.com/i-1/1027.htm 仲辛醇] [http://www.shop263.com/i-1/1028.htm 重溶剂油] [http://www.shop263.com/i-1/1029.htm 轴承机械油] [http://www.shop263.com/i-1/1030.htm 轴承清洗剂] [http://www.shop263.com/i-1/1031.htm 助留助滤剂] [http://www.shop263.com/i-1/1032.htm 注射葡萄糖] [http://www.shop263.com/i-1/1033.htm 柱层层析硅胶] [http://www.shop263.com/i-1/1034.htm 筑路油] [http://www.shop263.com/i-1/1035.htm 铸造焦] [http://www.shop263.com/i-1/1036.htm 铸造蜡] [http://www.shop263.com/i-1/1037.htm 铸造用呋] [http://www.shop263.com/i-1/1038.htm 铸造用膨润土] [http://www.shop263.com/i-1/1039.htm 铸造用粘结剂] [http://www.shop263.com/i-1/1040.htm 装饰涂料] [http://www.shop263.com/i-1/1041.htm 装修漆] [http://www.shop263.com/i-1/1042.htm 紫外线吸收剂] [http://www.shop263.com/i-1/1043.htm 自粘性保护膜] [http://www.shop263.com/i-1/1044.htm 棕刚玉] [http://www.shop263.com/i-1/1045.htm 棕榈酸] [http://www.shop263.com/i-1/1046.htm 棕榈酸异丙酯] [http://www.shop263.com/i-1/1047.htm 棕榈酸酯] [http://www.shop263.com/i-1/1048.htm 阻燃剂] [http://www.shop263.com/i-1/1049.htm 阻燃母料] [http://www.shop263.com/i-1/1050.htm 组合聚醚] [http://www.shop263.com/i-1/1051.htm 钻井泥浆土木工程用膨润土] [http://www.shop263.com/i-1/1052.htm 左氟羧酸] [http://www.shop263.com/i-1/1053.htm 左旋酒石酸] [http://www.shop263.com/i-1/1054.htm 左旋氧氟沙星环合酯] [http://www.shop263.com/i-1/1055.htm 舒他西林] [http://www.shop263.com/i-1/1056.htm 舒他西林游离碱] [http://www.shop263.com/i-1/1057.htm 树脂粉] [http://www.shop263.com/i-1/1058.htm 树脂油] [http://www.shop263.com/i-1/1059.htm 双苯基脲] [http://www.shop263.com/i-1/1060.htm 双酚A树脂单体] [http://www.shop263.com/i-1/1061.htm 双甘膦] [http://www.shop263.com/i-1/1062.htm 双光气] [http://www.shop263.com/i-1/1063.htm 双环戊二烯] [http://www.shop263.com/i-1/1064.htm 双磺酸] [http://www.shop263.com/i-1/1065.htm 双磺酸钠盐] [http://www.shop263.com/i-1/1066.htm 双氰胺] [http://www.shop263.com/i-1/1067.htm 双三甲基硅脲] [http://www.shop263.com/i-1/1068.htm 双烷基封端聚醚类] [http://www.shop263.com/i-1/1069.htm 双戊二烯树脂] [http://www.shop263.com/i-1/1070.htm 双戊环二烯] [http://www.shop263.com/i-1/1071.htm 双氧水] [http://www.shop263.com/i-1/1072.htm 双氧水催化剂] [http://www.shop263.com/i-1/1073.htm 双乙酸钠] [http://www.shop263.com/i-1/1074.htm 双乙烯酮] [http://www.shop263.com/i-1/1075.htm 双组份阴极电泳漆] [http://www.shop263.com/i-1/1076.htm 霜霉威四氢糠醇] [http://www.shop263.com/i-1/1077.htm 四溴苯酐] [http://www.shop263.com/i-1/1078.htm 阿奇霉素] [http://www.shop263.com/i-1/1079.htm 阿散酸] [http://www.shop263.com/i-1/1070.htm 阿司匹林] [http://www.shop263.com/i-1/1081.htm 阿斯巴甜] [http://www.shop263.com/i-1/1082.htm 安息香双甲醚] [http://www.shop263.com/i-1/1083.htm 桉叶油] [http://www.shop263.com/i-1/1084.htm 氨化] [http://www.shop263.com/i-1/1085.htm 氨基] [http://www.shop263.com/i-1/1086.htm 氨基C酸] [http://www.shop263.com/i-1/1087.htm 氨基苯甲酸] [http://www.shop263.com/i-1/1088.htm 氨基吡啶] [http://www.shop263.com/i-1/1089.htm 氨基丙醇] [http://www.shop263.com/i-1/1090.htm 氨基丙酸] [http://www.shop263.com/i-1/1091.htm 氨基蒽醌] [http://www.shop263.com/i-1/1092.htm 氨基二苯醚] [http://www.shop263.com/i-1/1093.htm 氨基胍硫酸盐] [http://www.shop263.com/i-1/1094.htm 氨基胍碳酸氢盐] [http://www.shop263.com/i-1/1095.htm 氨基胍碳酸盐] [http://www.shop263.com/i-1/1096.htm 氨基胍重碳酸盐] [http://www.shop263.com/i-1/1097.htm 氨基官能团硅烷] [http://www.shop263.com/i-1/1098.htm 氨基磺酸] [http://www.shop263.com/i-1/1099.htm 氨基磺酸铵] [http://www.shop263.com/i-1/1100.htm 氨基磺酸胍] [http://www.shop263.com/i-1/1101.htm 氨基磺酸镍] [http://www.shop263.com/i-1/1102.htm 氨基甲酸甲酯] [http://www.shop263.com/i-1/1103.htm 氨基甲酸乙酯] [http://www.shop263.com/i-1/1104.htm 氨基介酸] [http://www.shop263.com/i-1/1105.htm 氨基烤漆] [http://www.shop263.com/i-1/1106.htm 氨基模塑料] [http://www.shop263.com/i-1/1107.htm 氨基葡萄糖盐酸盐] [http://www.shop263.com/i-1/1108.htm 氨基树脂] [http://www.shop263.com/i-1/1109.htm 氨基乙腈硫酸] [http://www.shop263.com/i-1/1110.htm 氨基乙酸] [http://www.shop263.com/i-1/1111.htm 氨基有机硅] [http://www.shop263.com/i-1/1112.htm 氨甲苯酸] [http://www.shop263.com/i-1/1113.htm 氨甲环酸] [http://www.shop263.com/i-1/1114.htm 氨甲基] [http://www.shop263.com/i-1/1115.htm 氨酪酸] [http://www.shop263.com/i-1/1116.htm 氨力农] [http://www.shop263.com/i-1/1117.htm 铵明矾] [http://www.shop263.com/i-1/1118.htm 螯合铁] [http://www.shop263.com/i-1/1119.htm 奥美普林] [http://www.shop263.com/i-1/1120.htm 八水氢氧化锶] [http://www.shop263.com/i-1/1121.htm 八溴醚] [http://www.shop263.com/i-1/1122.htm 钯碳] [http://www.shop263.com/i-1/1123.htm 白电油] [http://www.shop263.com/i-1/1124.htm 白蜂蜡] [http://www.shop263.com/i-1/1125.htm 白糊精] [http://www.shop263.com/i-1/1126.htm 白蒺藜提取物] [http://www.shop263.com/i-1/1127.htm 白矿油] [http://www.shop263.com/i-1/1128.htm 白藜芦醇] [http://www.shop263.com/i-1/1129.htm 白炭黑] [http://www.shop263.com/i-1/1130.htm 柏木油] [http://www.shop263.com/i-1/1131.htm 半胱胺酸] [http://www.shop263.com/i-1/1132.htm 钡镉膏稳定剂] [http://www.shop263.com/i-1/1133.htm 钡锶盐] [http://www.shop263.com/i-1/1134.htm 倍硫磷] [http://www.shop263.com/i-1/1135.htm 贲亭酸甲酯] [http://www.shop263.com/i-1/1136.htm 苯胺] [http://www.shop263.com/i-1/1137.htm 苯胺甲基三乙氧基硅烷] [http://www.shop263.com/i-1/1138.htm 苯丙酮] [http://www.shop263.com/i-1/1139.htm 苯并环庚酮] [http://www.shop263.com/i-1/1140.htm 苯并噻唑] [http://www.shop263.com/i-1/1141.htm 苯对甲基苯甲醚] [http://www.shop263.com/i-1/1142.htm 苯甘氨酸对钾盐] [http://www.shop263.com/i-1/1143.htm 苯磺酰胺] [http://www.shop263.com/i-1/1144.htm 苯磺酰氯] [http://www.shop263.com/i-1/1145.htm 苯基] [http://www.shop263.com/i-1/1146.htm 苯基丙酰氯] [http://www.shop263.com/i-1/1147.htm 苯甲基硅油] [http://www.shop263.com/i-1/1148.htm 苯甲醛] [http://www.shop263.com/i-1/1149.htm 苯甲酸] [http://www.shop263.com/i-1/1150.htm 苯甲酸钠] [http://www.shop263.com/i-1/1151.htm 苯甲酰酒石酸] [http://www.shop263.com/i-1/1152.htm 苯甲酰氯] [http://www.shop263.com/i-1/1153.htm 苯钾酸钠] [http://www.shop263.com/i-1/1154.htm 苯偶酰] [http://www.shop263.com/i-1/1155.htm 苯偶姻] [http://www.shop263.com/i-1/1156.htm 苯骈三氮唑] [http://www.shop263.com/i-1/1157.htm 苯三甲酸酐] [http://www.shop263.com/i-1/1158.htm 苯亚磺酸钠] [http://www.shop263.com/i-1/1159.htm 苯氧基苯胺] [http://www.shop263.com/i-1/1160.htm 苯氧基四溴双酚] [http://www.shop263.com/i-1/1161.htm 苯乙腈] [http://www.shop263.com/i-1/1162.htm 苯乙酸] [http://www.shop263.com/i-1/1163.htm 苯乙酮] [http://www.shop263.com/i-1/1164.htm 苯乙烯] [http://www.shop263.com/i-1/1165.htm 苯乙烯化苯酚] [http://www.shop263.com/i-1/1166.htm 苯乙烯脱氢催化剂] [http://www.shop263.com/i-1/1167.htm 苯乙酰氯] [http://www.shop263.com/i-1/1168.htm 苯已酮] [http://www.shop263.com/i-1/1169.htm 笨乙腈] [http://www.shop263.com/i-1/1170.htm 笨乙酸] [http://www.shop263.com/i-1/1171.htm 比赛可灵] [http://www.shop263.com/i-1/1172.htm 吡虫啉原药] [http://www.shop263.com/i-1/1173.htm 吡啶甲酸铬] [http://www.shop263.com/i-1/1174.htm 吡啶醇酯] [http://www.shop263.com/i-1/1175.htm 吡啶羧酸铬] [http://www.shop263.com/i-1/1176.htm 吡啶盐酸盐] [http://www.shop263.com/i-1/1177.htm 吡啶乙酸盐酸盐] [http://www.shop263.com/i-1/1178.htm 吡喹酮] [http://www.shop263.com/i-1/1179.htm 吡咯酮] [http://www.shop263.com/i-1/1180.htm 吡咯烷酮] [http://www.shop263.com/i-1/1181.htm 吡咯烷酮羧酸钾] [http://www.shop263.com/i-1/1182.htm 吡咯烷酮羧酸钠] [http://www.shop263.com/i-1/1183.htm 吡咯烷酮装置] [http://www.shop263.com/i-1/1184.htm 必性硅油] [http://www.shop263.com/i-1/1185.htm 铋盐] [http://www.shop263.com/i-1/1186.htm 避蚊胺] [http://www.shop263.com/i-1/1187.htm 苄叉丙酮] [http://www.shop263.com/i-1/1188.htm 苄基三甲基氯化胺] [http://www.shop263.com/i-1/1189.htm 苄基三乙基氯化铵] [http://www.shop263.com/i-1/1190.htm 变性淀粉] [http://www.shop263.com/i-1/1191.htm 别嘌醇] [http://www.shop263.com/i-1/1192.htm 冰醋酸] [http://www.shop263.com/i-1/1193.htm 丙氨酸] [http://www.shop263.com/i-1/1194.htm 丙胺] [http://www.shop263.com/i-1/1195.htm 丙二醇] [http://www.shop263.com/i-1/1196.htm 丙二腈] [http://www.shop263.com/i-1/1197.htm 丙二酸酯类] [http://www.shop263.com/i-1/1198.htm 丙基] [http://www.shop263.com/i-1/1199.htm 丙基咪唑二羧酸] [http://www.shop263.com/i-1/1200.htm 丙基咪唑二羧酸二乙酯]

[http://www.haishun.net 门禁] [http://www.haishun.net 监控] [http://www.genset-sh.com 发电机] [http://www.haishun.net/p\_mjds.htm 门禁] [http://www.haishun.net/p\_mjds\_dmmj.htm 门禁] [http://www.haishun.net/p\_mjds\_lwmj.htm 门禁] [http://www.haishun.net/p\_mjds\_yjs.htm 门禁] [http://www.haishun.net/cctv.htm 监控] [http://www.haishun.net/p\_cctv\_jk.htm 监控] [http://www.haishun.net/p\_cctv\_jk\_sxj.htm 监控] [http://www.haishun.net/p\_cctv\_jk\_xsq.htm 监控] [http://www.haishun.net/p\_cctv\_jk\_yplxj.htm 监控] [http://www.haishun.net/p\_cctv\_jk\_yt.htm 监控] [http://www.haishun.net/p\_cctv\_jk\_zj.htm 监控] [http://www.7766888.com 虚拟主机] [http://www.7766888.com/introcom.htm asp虚拟主机] [http://www.7766888.com/introcn.htm php虚拟主机] [http://www.7766888.com/u\_puji.htm unix虚拟主机] [http://www.7766888.com/mysql.htm windows虚拟主机] [http://www.7766888.com/u\_jingji.htm 纯空间虚拟主机] [http://www.7766888.com/u\_biaozhun.htm 虚拟主机] [http://www.7766888.com/u\_zhiqiang.htm 虚拟主机] [http://www.7766888.com/w\_jingji.htm 虚拟主机] [http://www.7766888.com/w\_biaozhun.htm 虚拟主机] [http://www.asp169.com/marketingsoft1.htm 空压机] [http://www.asp169.com/marketingsoft2.htm 压缩机] [http://www.asp169.com/zhaoguan.htm 消毒剂] [http://www.asp169.com/crm.htm 化妆品] [http://www.asp169.com/marketingsoft3.htm 战略咨询] [http://www.asp169.com/marketingsoft4.htm 武夷山] [http://www.asp169.com/marketingsoft5.htm 数据恢复] [http://haishun11.51.net 虚拟主机] [http://decorate.51.net 装修] [http://decorate.51.net 团购] [http://www.xsjby.cn 化工泵] [http://www.asp169.com/zhaoguan2.htm 二氧化氯] [http://www.fm360.net 网址大全] [http://www.fm360.net/page/001.html 网址大全] [http://www.fm360.net/page/game.htm 网址大全] [http://www.fm360.net/page/software.htm 网址大全] [http://www.fm360.net/page/jinshi.htm 网址大全] [http://www.fm360.net/page/music.htm 网址大全] [http://www.fm360.net/page/053.html 网址大全] [http://www.fm360.net/page/flash.htm 网址大全] [http://www.fm360.net/page/newsweek.htm 网址大全] [http://www.fm360.net/page/club.htm 网址大全] [http://www.fm360.net/page/stock.htm 网址大全] [http://www.fm360.net/page/love.htm 网址大全] [http://www.fm360.net/page/netcard.htm 网址大全] [http://www.fm360.net/page/025.html 网址大全] [http://www.fm360.net/page/hardware.htm 网址大全] [http://www.fm360.net/page/sport.htm 网址大全] [http://www.fm360.net/page/shouji.htm 网址大全] [http://www.fm360.net/page/ym.htm 网址大全] [http://www.fm360.net/page/ylbj.htm 网址大全] [http://www.fm360.net/page/car.htm 网址大全] [http://www.jifamark.com 线号机] [http://www.jifamark.com/xhj.htm 线号机] [http://www.jifamark.com 打号机] [http://www.funasia.cn 装修] [http://www.funasia.cn 团购] [http://www.funasia.cn/pinpai.asp 装修] [http://www.funasia.cn/client/gb\_list.asp 装修] [http://www.funasia.cn/design/index.asp 装修] [http://www.funasia.cn/funasiaHome/index.asp 装修] [http://www.funasia.cn/jiancai.asp 装修] [http://www.funasia.cn/shishang.asp 装修] [http://www.funasia.cn/mall/AboutOur.htm 团购] [http://www.genset-sh.com/cai.asp 发电机] [http://www.genset-sh.com/tancu.asp 发电机] [http://www.genset-sh.com/xi3.asp 发电机] [http://www.genset-sh.com/lan.asp 发电机] [http://www.genset-sh.com/leng.asp 发电机] [http://www.genset-sh.com/jiyou.asp 发电机] [http://www.genset-sh.com/ranyou.asp 发电机] [http://www.genset-sh.com/kuongqi.asp 发电机] [http://www.genset-sh.com/ssss.asp 发电机] [http://www.zj-df.com 减速机] [http://www.xhhj.com.cn 离心机] [http://www.hdfix.com.cn 数据恢复]
