## <a name="TWiki_Username_vs_Login_Username"> TWiki Username vs. Login Username </a>

This section applies only if your %WIKITOOLNAME% is installed on a server that is both **authenticated** and on an **intranet**.

%WIKITOOLNAME% internally manages two usernames: Login username and TWiki username.

* **Login username:** When you login to the intranet, you use your existing login username, ex: <code>**pthoeny**</code>. This name is normally passed to %WIKITOOLNAME% by the <code>**REMOTE\_USER**</code> environment variable. %WIKITOOLNAME% uses this name internally to log topic changes. Login usernames are maintained by your system administrator.
* **TWiki username:** This is your name in [[WikiNotation]], ex: <code>**PeterThoeny**</code>, recorded when you register in [[TWikiRegistration]]; doing so also generates your personal home page in the %MAINWEB% web of your TWiki site.

%WIKITOOLNAME% can map the intranet username to the Wiki username automatically, provided that the Login username and Wiki username pair has been entered in the %MAINWEB%.%WIKIUSERSTOPIC% topic. This happens automatically when you register.

> **_NOTE:_**
>
> **To correctly enter a [[WikiName]]**
>
> - your own or someone else's - be sure to specify the %MAINWEB% web in front of the Wiki username: write
>
> <code>**%MAINWEB%.WikiUsername**</code>
>
> or
>
> <code>**%MAINWEB%.WikiUsername**</code>
>
> . This assures that the name will be linked automatically to the %WIKITOOLNAME%.%MAINWEB% web, where user registration pages are stored, even if the text is entered in a different %WIKITOOLNAME% web.

-- [[PeterThoeny]] - 16 May 2001 <br />
