%TOC% %STARTINCLUDE%

# <a name="TWiki_System_Requirements"> TWiki System Requirements </a>

_Server and client system requirements for TWiki 01-Sep-2001_

## <a name="Overview"> Overview </a>

Maintaining minimum client and server requirements is necessary to keep TWiki deployment as broad as possible.

## <a name="Server_Requirements"> Server Requirements </a>

TWiki is written in Perl 5, uses a number of shell commands, and requires [RCS (Revision Control System)](http://www.gnu.org/software/rcs/rcs.html), a GNU Free Software package. TWiki is developed in a basic Linux/Apache environment. It also works with Microsoft Windows, and should have no problem on any other platform that meets the requirements:

<table border="1" cellpadding="1" cellspacing="0">
  <tr>
    <th bgcolor="#99CCCC" colspan="3"><strong>Required Server Environment</strong></th>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <th bgcolor="#99CCCC"><strong>Resource</strong></th>
    <th bgcolor="#99CCCC"><strong>Unix</strong></th>
    <th bgcolor="#99CCCC"><strong>Windows</strong></th>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td> Perl </td>
    <td align="center" colspan="2"> 5.005_03 or higher </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td> Non standard Perl modules </td>
    <td align="center"><code>Net::SMTP</code> (or <code>sendmail</code>) </td>
    <td align="center"><code>Net::SMTP</code>, <code>MIME::Base64</code>, <code>Digest::SHA1</code></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td> RCS </td>
    <td align="center" colspan="2"> 5.7 or higher </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td> Other external programs </td>
    <td align="center" colspan="2"><code>ls, fgrep, egrep</code></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td> Web server </td>
    <td align="center" colspan="2"> Apache; others (with support for CGI, authentication, extended path) <strong>*</strong></td>
  </tr>
</table>

Current documentation covers Linux only. A [TWikiOnWindows](http://twiki.org/cgi-bin/view/Codev/TWikiOnWindows) installation guide is next.

## <a name="Client_Requirements"> Client Requirements </a>

The TWiki [[TWikiInstallationGuide]] has extremely low browser requirements:

* HTML 3.2 compliant
* generates XHTML 1.0 pages that are compatible with HTML 3.2
* minimal use of JavaScript in the user interface (degrades gracefully)
* no cookies
* no CSS

You can easily add capabilities, through customizing the templates, for one, while tailoring the browser requirements to your situation.

## <a name="Known_Issues"> Known Issues </a>

* The new [[TWikiPlugins]] feature currently does not have compatibility guidelines for developers. Plugins can require just about anything: browser-specific functions, stylesheets (CSS), DHTML, Java applets, cookies.

-- [[MikeMannix]] - 15 Sep 2001 <br />
