## <a name="TWiki_is_a_Web_based_collaborati"> TWiki is a Web-based collaboration tool </a>

* A TWiki site is a easy-to-use, full-featured open communication environment:
  * people anywhere on the Web or on an intranet can meet
  * rich Web text, images, and online multimedia are easily shared
  * documents and other files can be uploaded and downloaded
  * everything works through a regular Web browser

### <a name="TWiki_is_a_powerful_Web_enhancem"> TWiki is a powerful Web enhancement... </a>

* TWiki's parsing engine is written in Perl. It reads a text file, and converts TWiki shorthand into standard HTML, on the fly. The point is to:
  * make adding and editing text simple _(How simple? Click on the **Edit** link at the bottom of the page...)_
  * let you find information _fast_ ([[WebSearch]])

* TWiki provides an intuitive way to meet and collaborate, that aspires to the Zen ideals known as [[WabiSabi]]. It finds beauty in the imperfect and ephemeral and constantly evolving. When it comes down to it, that's all you need.

* TWiki is one of many [[WikiWikiClones]], based on Ward Cunningham's original [Wiki Wiki Web](http://c2.com/).

### <a name="_TWiki_stands_for_"> "TWiki" stands for... </a>

* _Wiki wiki_ means "quick" in Hawaiian. The shuttle at Honolulu Airport is called the _wiki wiki_ bus, which is where the original Wiki web got its name.
* _TWiki_ is short for _TakeFive Wiki_ from the name of the company where its founder worked. (It was later discovered that _Twiki_ is also the name of an AI robot that co-starred in the [_Buck Rogers..._](http://www.buck-rogers.com/) movie and TV show from 1979 - its head is in the logo.)

### <a name="Selected_TWiki_Topics_"> Selected TWiki Topics... </a>

* [[TWikiPages]] tells you how to do administrative things, like renaming topics.
* [[TWikiHistory]] timelines TWiki's development.
* [[TWikiPlannedFeatures]] lists of approved additions to future TWiki versions.
* [[TWikiEnhancementRequests]] is the place to add your new feature requests.
* [[TWikiDocumentation]] is the complete reference manual.
* [[WikiCulture]] looks at the unique type of collaboration Wiki systems offer.
* [[WikiReferences]] links to articles and books about collaboration and Wiki technology.

> **_NOTE:_**
>
> If you have to log-in to us TWiki, for example, if Twiki is running on an intranet, it automatically signs new pages with your
>
> 
>
> [[WikiName]]
>
> . If your TWiki installation doesn't require a log-in, TWiki gives everyone the same username:
>
> 
>
> [[Main/TWikiGuest]]
>
> .

TWiki is trademarked to Peter Thoeny, originator and lead developer.

* TWiki's home address is <http://twiki.org/>.
* Source code is available upon request: see <http://twiki.org/download.html>.
* [[WelcomeGuest]] is a fast track guide to TWiki.
* This site is powered by TWiki version **%WIKIVERSION%**.

_Last updated: [[Main/MikeMannix]] - 30 Oct 2001_<br />
