# <a name="TWikiShorthand_Basics"> TWikiShorthand Basics </a>

If you can enter text, you're ready for TWiki. With a few simple, intuitive [[TWikiShorthand]] rules, you'll be able to use plain text to create well-styled postings, instantly. Here's a fast-track guide to shorthand basics...

* Separate each **paragraph** with a blank line.

* To display a word or phrase in **bold type**, put it in asterisks: `*bold type*`.

* To display a word or phrase in _italic_, put it in underscores: `_italic_`.

* To display a word or phrase in **_bold italic_**, put it in _double_ underscores: `__bold italic__`.

* To link to another Wiki topic, type the [[WikiWord]] for that topic. To link to a Wiki topic in another web, type the name of the web, and a dot, first: <code>Test.%HOMETOPIC%</code>.

* If you enter a [[WikiWord]] for a topic that doesn't exist, it'll appear highlighted, with question mark at the end, prompting you (or someone else) to start off the new topic by clicking the **?** - [[NewTopic]] (click the **?**, but don't save, to preserve the example!).

* When entering WikiName signatures - like, %USERNAME% - include the %MAINWEB% as a prefix, since all TWiki member pages are in the %MAINWEB% web: `Main.YourName`.

* For an external link, type the full URL: `http://twiki.org`.

* To prevent a WikiWord from becoming a link, type `<nop>` first, <code>**&lt;nop&gt;NoLinkPlease**</code>.

* To indent with a bullet, enter `[space][space][space][asterisk][space]`.
  * Use multiples of 3 spaces to start **nested bullets**.
    * That's 3-6-9-...

1. Start items in a **numbered list** with `[space][space][space][1][space]`.
2. The "1" (or **any number**) will be replaced by the correct number, in order.

* Start **counting spaces** for bullets from the beginning of a new line.

* To include an image, type its URL. You also can Attach an image to the page and display it with text <br />=%ATTACHURL%/yourimagefilename.jpg=.

* To display a word or phrase in `MONOSPACED TYPE`, put it in equal signs: <code>=like this=</code>. <br />Use <code>==two==</code> for bold: <code>**bold mono**</code>.

* Use <code>**&lt;pre&gt;**</code> to enclose code excerpts, filenames, and other unformatted text, with the opening and closing tags on their own separate lines:

> <pre>
> <b>&amp;lt;pre&amp;gt;</b>
> unformatted text!
> <b>&amp;lt;/pre&amp;gt;</b>
> </pre>

* Three (or more) consecutive **hyphens** expand into a horizontal rule: `---`

----

* See [[TWikiShorthand]] for the complete set of formatting rules.
