A WikiWord consists of two or more words with initial capitals, run together.

When you type a WikiWord, you establish a hyperlink. It's as easy as that.

WikiWords are styled like this because:

* It makes Wiki hyperlinks instantly recognizable
* It leads to interesting Wiki topics
* It avoids the need to fiddle with HTML tags
* It avoids over-general topics because at least two words are required

**Syntax of a WikiWord**

* Uppercase letter(s)
* Lowercase letter(s)
* Uppercase letter(s)
* Optional lowercase or uppercase letter(s) or number(s)

**Good examples for WikiWords:**

* [[WikiWord]]
* [[GoodStyle]]
* [[AVeryLongWikiTopicNameIsAlsoPossible]]
* [[YearTwoThousand]]

**Bad examples for WikiWords:**

* Web: Name with no uppercase letter in between
* T5Wiki: Name with number before the first lowercase letter
* Know-How: Name with dashes in between

**Hints**

* Insert WikiWords wherever you can. Rich linking helps to make a Wiki successful.
* To stop a WikiWord from being turned into a hyperlink, insert the text `<nop>` immediately before the WikiWord.
* A topic is usually presented in the singular. Plural WikiWords are automatically linked to the singular topic, i.e. the link [[WikiWords]] links to the topic [[WikiWord]].
* Sometimes you have to be creative to find a good WikiName. Examples:
  * To create a topic about the the **Bread Slicer 1.2** product, use `BreadSlicer1dot2` or `BreadSlicer1pt2`, but not `BreadSlicer1.2`.
  * To create a topic about **year 2000**, you could go for `YearTwoK` or `YearTwoThousand`, but not `Year2K` or `Y2K` or `Y2000`.
* Turn acronyms into WikiWords, i.e. take `FaqIndex` for a "FAQ index" topic.
* You can create nicer looking links by using double square brackets, i.e. write <code>[[TWiki access control]]</code> to get a link to [[TWikiAccessControl]] that looks like [[TWikiAccessControl]].

**_Related Topics:_** [[WikiSyntax]], [[TextFormattingRules]]
