[[!meta copyright="Copyright © 2011, 2013 Free Software Foundation, Inc."]]

[[!meta license="""[[!toggle id="license" text="GFDL 1.2+"]][[!toggleable
id="license" text="Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this
document under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.2 or
any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no Invariant
Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.  A copy of the license
is included in the section entitled [[GNU Free Documentation
License|/fdl]]."]]"""]]

[[!meta title="Enable Google Go programming (GCC: gccgo)"]]

[[!tag open_issue_gcc]]

Make the [Google Go programming language](http://golang.org/) available on
GNU/Hurd in its [[service_solahart_jakarta_selatan__082122541663/Gcc]] *gccgo* implementation, and enable Hurd-specific
features.

There is a [[!FF_project 263]][[!tag bounty]] on this task.

---


# Part I

First, make the language functional, have its test suite pass without errors.


## Original [[community/GSoC]] Task Description

[[!inline pages=community/gsoc/project_ideas/gccgo feeds=no]]


## `tschwinge/t/hurd/go`

There is now a `tschwinge/t/hurd/go` branch in GCC's Git repository, where the
Hurd port for Go is being polished.


## `getcontext`/`makecontext`/`setcontext`/`swapcontext` usage analysis

In context of [[glibc/t/tls-threadvar]].  Looking at GCC trunk commit
f6568ea476aa52a6e23c6db43b3e240cde55783a (2013-04-26).

The check in `libgo/configure.ac` *whether setcontext clobbers TLS variables*
is invalid on GNU Hurd.

The `*context` functions are used in `libgo/runtime/go-signal.c` and
`libgo/runtime/proc.c`.

`__splitstack_getcontext`, `__splitstack_setcontext`,
`__splitstack_makecontext`, `__splitstack_resetcontext`,
`__splitstack_block_signals_context` are to be provided by libgcc.  However, in
said libgo runtime files, they're used only `#ifdef USING_SPLIT_STACK`.
[[I|tschwinge]] would assume that before we can enable split stacks, first
[[open_issues/glibc/t/tls-threadvar]] needs to be fixed.

In `libgo/runtime/proc.c`:`runtime_gogo`, `setcontext` is used to *switch
context to a different goroutine*.  TODO.

In `libgo/runtime/proc.c`:`runtime_mcall`, which *save[s] context and call[s]
fn passing g as a parameter*, `getcontext` and `setcontext` are used; this is
only called from `libgo/runtime/proc.c`:`runtime_gosched`.  TODO.

In `libgo/runtime/proc.c`:`runtime_tracebackothers`, `getcontext` is used to
*switch context to the goroutine*.  TODO.

In `libgo/runtime/proc.c`:`runtime_mstart`, which is *called to start an M*,
`getcontext` is used.  TODO.

In `libgo/runtime/proc.c`:`runtime_entersyscall`, which is called when *the
goroutine g is about to enter a system call*, `getcontext` is used to *save the
registers in the g structure so that any pointers held in registers will be
seen by the garbage collector*.  Should be fine.

In `libgo/runtime/proc.c`:`__go_go`, `getcontext` and `makecontext` are used.
TODO.

In `libgo/runtime/thread.c`:`runtime_minit`, which is *[c]alled to initialize a
new m (including the bootstrap m)*, `ss.ss_sp` is set to a new stack retrieved
via `libgo/runtime/proc.c:runtime_malg`, which *allocate[s] a new g, with a
stack [...]*, and then `sigaltstack` is called.  TODO.

    libgo/runtime/go-signal.c:  /* We are now running on the stack registered via sigaltstack.
    libgo/runtime/go-signal.c:     and sigaltstack when the program starts.)  */
    
    libgo/runtime/proc.c:         vnewg->context.uc_stack.ss_sp = vsp;
    libgo/runtime/proc.c:         vnewg->context.uc_stack.ss_sp += vspsize;
    libgo/runtime/proc.c:         vnewg->context.uc_stack.ss_size = vspsize;

Also, in `libgo/runtime/proc.c`:`runtime_newm`, `pthread_attr_setstacksize` is
used, which we also can't support yet, for the same reason.


========================

**gccgo manages to get compiled and pass a fair amount of its tests, however its library is failing all but one of its tests.**

Following are the results of the passing suite between the libgo tests run on linux (x86) and the Hurd:

# the Hurd:

    Test Run By root on Fri Jul 12 17:56:44 UTC 2013
    Native configuration is i686-unknown-gnu0.3

		    === libgo tests ===

    Schedule of variations:
        unix

    ...

		    === libgo Summary ===

    # of expected passes		1
    # of unexpected failures	130
    /root/gcc_new/gccbuild/./gcc/gccgo version 4.9.0 20130606 (experimental) (GCC)

# Linux results:

    Test Run By fotis on Τρι 02 Ιούλ 2013 09:20:20 μμ EEST
    Native configuration is i686-pc-linux-gnu

		    === libgo tests ===

    Schedule of variations:
        unix

    ...

		    === libgo Summary ===

    # of expected passes		131
    /home/fotis/Software/gcc_build/./gcc/gccgo version 4.9.0 20130702 (experimental) (GCC)


---


# Part II

Next, Hurd-specific features can be added.  Add an interface to the
language/environment for being able to do [[RPC]] calls, in order to program
[[hurd/translator]]s natively in the Google Go programming language.


## Original [[community/GSoC]] Task Description

[[!inline pages=community/gsoc/project_ideas/language_bindings feeds=no]]
