[[!meta copyright="Copyright © 2012 Free Software Foundation, Inc."]]

[[!meta license="""[[!toggle id="license" text="GFDL 1.2+"]][[!toggleable
id="license" text="Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this
document under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.2 or
any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no Invariant
Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.  A copy of the license
is included in the section entitled [[GNU Free Documentation
License|/fdl]]."]]"""]]

[[!tag open_issue_hurd]]


# IRC, freenode, #hurd, 2012-07-20

From [[Genode RPC|microkernel/genode/rpc]].

    <braunr> assuming synchronous ipc is the way to go (it seems so), there is
      still the need for some async ipc (e.g signalling untrusted recipients
      without risking blocking on them)
    <braunr> 1/ do you agree on that and 2/ how would this low-overhead async
      ipc be done ? (and 3/ are there relevant examples ?
    <antrik> if you think about this stuff too much you will end up like marcus
      and neal ;-)
    <braunr> antrik: likely :)
    <antrik> the truth is that there are various possible designs all with
      their own tradeoffs, and nobody can really tell which one is better
    <braunr> the only sensible one i found is qnx :/
    <braunr> but it's still messy
    <braunr> they have what they call pulses, with a strictly defined format
    <braunr> so it's actually fine because it guarantees low overhead, and can
      easily be queued
    <braunr> but i'm not sure about the format
    <antrik> I must say that Neal's half-sync approach in Viengoos still sounds
      most promising to me. it's actually modelled after the needs of a
      Hurd-like system; and he thought about it a lot...
    <braunr> damn i forgot to reread that
    <braunr> stupid me
    <antrik> note that you can't come up with a design that allows both a)
      delivering reliably and b) never blocking the sender -- unless you cache
      in the kernel, which we don't want
    <antrik> but I don't think it's really necessary to fulfill both of these
      requirements
    <antrik> it's up to the receiver to make sure it gets important signals
    <braunr> right
    <braunr> caching in the kernel is ok as long as the limit allows the
      receiver to handle its signals
    <antrik> in the Viengoos approach, the receiver can allocate a number of
      receive buffers; so it's even possible to do some queuing if desired
    <braunr> ah great, limits in the form of resources lent by the receiver
    <braunr> one thing i really don't like in mach is the behaviour on full
      message queues
    <braunr> blocking :/
    <braunr> i bet the libpager deadlock is due to that

[[libpager_deadlock]].

    <braunr> it simply means async ipc doesn't prevent at all from deadlocks
    <antrik> the sender can set a timeout. blocking only happens when setting
      it to infinite...
    <braunr> which is commonly the case
    <antrik> well, if you see places where blocking is done but failing would
      be more appropriate, try changing them I'd say...
    <braunr> it's not that easy :/


# IRC, freenode, #hurd, 2012-08-18

    <lcc> what is the deepest design mistake of the HURD/gnumach?
    <braunr> lcc: async ipc
    <savask> braunr: You mentioned that moving to L4 will create problems. Can
      you name some, please?
    <savask> I thought it was going to be faster on L4
    <braunr> the problem is that l4 *only* provides sync ipc
    <braunr> so implementing async communication would require one seperated
      thread for each instance of async communication
    <savask> But you said that the deepest design mistake of Hurd is asynch
      ipc.
    <braunr> not the hurd, mach
    <braunr> and hurd depends on it now
    <braunr> i said l4 provides *only* sync ipc
    <braunr> systems require async communication tools
    <braunr> but they shouldn't be built entirely on top of them
    <savask> Hmm, so you mean mach has bad asynch ipc?
    <braunr> you can consider mach and l4 as two extremes in os design
    <braunr> mach *only* has async ipc
    <lcc> what was viengoos trying to explore?
    * savask is confused
    <braunr> lcc: half-sync ipc :)
    <braunr> lcc: i can't tell you more on that, i need to understand it better
      myself before any explanation attempt
    <savask> You say that mach problem is asynch ipc. And L4's problem is it's
      sync ipc. That means problems are in either of them!
    <braunr> exactly
    <lcc> how did apple resolve issues with mach?
    <savask> What is perfect then? A "golden middle"?
    <braunr> lcc: they have migrating threads, which make most rpc behave as if
      they used sync ipc
    <braunr> savask: nothing is perfect :p
    <mcsim> braunr: but why async ipc is the problem?
    <braunr> mcsim: it requires in-kernel buffering
    <savask> braunr: Yes, but we can't have problems everywhere o_O
    <braunr> mcsim: this not only reduces communication performance, but
      creates many resource usage problems
    <braunr> mcsim: and potential denial of service, which is what we
      experience most of the time when something in the hurd fails
    <braunr> savask: there are problems we can live with
    <mcsim> braunr: But this could be replaced by userspace server, isn't it?
    <braunr> savask: this is what monolithic kernels do
    <braunr> mcsim: what ?
    <braunr> mcsim: this would be the same, this central buffering server would
      suffer from the same kind of issue
    <mcsim> braunr: async ipc. Buffer can hold special server
    <mcsim> But there could be created several servers, and queue could have
      limit.
    <braunr> queue limits are a problem
    <braunr> when a queue limit is reached, you either block (= sync ipc) or
      lose a message
    <braunr> to keep messaging reliable, mach makes senders block
    <braunr> the problem is that async ipc is often used to avoid blocking
    <braunr> so blocking when you don't expect it can create deadlocks
    <braunr> savask: a good compromise is to use sync ipc most of the time, and
      async ipc for a few special cases, like signals
    <braunr> this is what okl4 does if i'm right
    <braunr> i'm not sure of the details, but like many other projects they
      realized current systems simply need good support for async ipc, so they
      extended l4 or something on top of it to provide it
    <braunr> it took years of research for very smart people to get to some
      consensus like "sync ipc is better but async is needed too"
    <braunr> personaly i don't like l4 :/
    <braunr> really not
    <mcsim> braunr: Anyway there is some queue for messaging, but at the moment
      if it overflows panics kernel. And with limited queue servers will panic.
    <braunr> mcsim: it can't overflow
    <braunr> mach blocks senders
    <braunr> queuing basically means "block and possible deadlock" or "lose
      messages and live with it"
    <mcsim> So, deadlocks are still possible?
    <braunr> of course
    <braunr> have a look at the libpager debian patch and the discussion around
      it
    <braunr> it's a perfect example
    <youpi> braunr: it makes gnu mach slow as hell sometimes, which I guess is
      because all threads (which can ben 1000s) wake at the same time
    <braunr> youpi: you mean are created ?
    <braunr> because they'll have to wake in any case
    <braunr> i can understand why creating lots of threads is slower, but
      cthreads never destroyes kernel threads
    <braunr> doesn't seem to be a mach problem, rather a cthreads one
    <braunr> i hope we're able to remove the patch after pthreads are used

[[libpthread]].

    <mcsim> braunr: You state that hurd can't move to sync ipc, since it
      depends on async ipc. But at the same time async ipc doesn't guarantee
      that task wouldn't block. So, I don't understand why limited queues will
      lead to more deadlocks?
    <braunr> mcsim: async ipc can block because of queue limits
    <braunr> mcsim: if you remove the limit, you remove the deadlock problem,
      and replace it with denial of service
    <braunr> mcsim: i didn't say the hurd can't move to sync ipc
    <braunr> mcsim: i said it came to depend on async ipc as provided by mach,
      and we would need to change that
    <braunr> and it's tricky
    <youpi> braunr: no, I really mean are woken. The timeout which gets dropped
      by the patch makes threads wake after some time, to realize they should
      go away. It's a hell long when all these threads wake at the same time
      (because theygot created at the same time)
    <braunr> ahh

    <antrik> savask: what is perfect regarding IPC is something nobody can
      really answer... there are competing opinions on that matter. but we know
      by know that the Mach model is far from ideal, and that the (original) L4
      model is also problematic -- at least for implementing a UNIX-like system
    <braunr> personally, if i'd create a system now, i'd use sync ipc for
      almost everything, and implement posix-like signals in the kernel
    <braunr> that's one solution, it's not perfect
    <braunr> savask: actually the real answer may be "noone knows for now and
      it still requires work and research"
    <braunr> so for now, we're using mach
    <antrik> savask: regarding IPC, the path explored by Viengoos (and briefly
      Coyotos) seems rather promising to me
    <antrik> savask: and yes, I believe that whatever direction we take, we
      should do so by incrementally reworking Mach rather than jumping to a
      completely new microkernel...
