[[!meta copyright="Copyright © 2009, 2010, 2013 Free Software Foundation,
Inc."]]

[[!meta license="""[[!toggle id="license" text="GFDL 1.2+"]][[!toggleable
id="license" text="Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this
document under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.2 or
any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no Invariant
Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.  A copy of the license
is included in the section entitled [[GNU Free Documentation
License|/fdl]]."]]"""]]

This page documents how installation of some new machines is being done.


# [[zenhost]]

For those on [[zenhost]], we use
*[install_crosshurd](http://git.savannah.gnu.org/cgit/hurd/incubator.git/log/?h=install_crosshurd)*.

Another option might be switching to <http://www.informatik.uni-koeln.de/fai/>
or a equivalent system.

Steps for *install_crosshurd*:

  * Enable loggin with screen (`C-a H`).

  * \# lvcreate ...

  * machines/[MACHINE]

  * \# MACHINE=[MACHINE] TARGET=/dev/zenhost/[MACHINE]-root ./install_crosshurd

  * \# sudo umount /tmp/*/target

  * /etc/xen/[MACHINE]

  * \# xm create -c [MACHINE]

      * \# /install

          * TODO

                Unpacking debconf (from .../debconf_1.5.28_all.deb) ...
                + debconf-set-selections
                warning: Unknown type error, skipping line 9

          * TODO

                Unpacking bash (from .../bash_4.1-3_hurd-i386.deb) ...
                The bash upgrade discovered that your /bin/sh link points to dash.
                As bash for Debian is destined to provide a working /bin/sh (pointing to
                /bin/bash) your link will be overwritten by a default link.

                If you don't want further upgrades to overwrite your customization, please
                read /usr/share/doc/bash/README.Debian.gz for a more permanent solution.

                [Press RETURN to continue]

            That file doesn't say anything about it.

          * TODO; related to the *debconf-set-selections* thing above

                Setting up libpam-runtime (1.1.1-6) ...
                debconf: unable to initialize frontend: Dialog
                debconf: (No usable dialog-like program is installed, so the dialog based frontend cannot be used. at /usr/share/perl5/Debconf/FrontEnd/Dialog.pm line 75.)
                debconf: falling back to frontend: Readline
                debconf: unable to initialize frontend: Readline
                debconf: (Can't locate Term/ReadLine.pm in @INC (@INC contains: /etc/perl /usr/local/lib/perl/5.10.1 /usr/local/share/perl/5.10.1 /usr/lib/perl5 /usr/share/perl5 /usr/lib/perl/5.10 /usr/share/perl/5.10 /usr/local/lib/site_perl .) at /usr/share/perl5/Debconf/FrontEnd/Readline.pm line 7.)
                debconf: falling back to frontend: Teletype
                Configuring libpam-runtime
                --------------------------

                Pluggable Authentication Modules (PAM) determine how authentication,
                authorization, and password changing are handled on the system, as well as
                allowing configuration of additional actions to take when starting user
                sessions.

                Some PAM module packages provide profiles that can be used to automatically
                adjust the behavior of all PAM-using applications on the system.  Please
                indicate which of these behaviors you wish to enable.

                  1. Unix authentication

                (Enter the items you want to select, separated by spaces.)

                PAM profiles to enable:  

          * if it's a Xen domU:

                # sudo apt-get --purge install libc0.3-xen libc0.3-i686-

      * As needed:

            # mkfs.ext2 -I 128 -b 4096 /dev/hd2 # TAKE CARE!
            # settrans /media/data /hurd/ext2fs /dev/hd2
            # mkdir /media/data/home
            # rmdir /home && ln -s media/data/home /

            # mkfs.ext2 -I 128 -b 4096 /dev/hd3 # TAKE CARE!
            # settrans /media/var /hurd/ext2fs /dev/hd3
            # mv /var /media/var/
            # ln -s media/var/var /

      * If needed: restore (parts of) some files

          * /etc/{passwd,shadow,group,gshadow}

              * \# adduser ... sudo

              * \# passwd root

          * (`mkdir /etc/ssh`), restore `/etc/ssh/ssh_host_*key*`

      * \# syncfs -s && halt

  * \# xm create -c [MACHINE]

      * \# /install_packages

  * Until [[service_solahart_jakarta_selatan__082122541663/screen]] is fixed:

      * Install `flubber:~tschwinge/screen_4.0.3-11_hurd-i386.deb` instead.

          * \# printf 'screen\thold\n' | dpkg --set-selections

  * add line to zenhost's `/etc/hosts`

  * system-specific:

      * [[flubber]]
      * [[snubber]]


# [[darnassus]]
