[[!meta copyright="Copyright © 2010, 2013 Free Software Foundation, Inc."]]

[[!meta license="""[[!toggle id="license" text="GFDL 1.2+"]][[!toggleable
id="license" text="Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this
document under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.2 or
any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no Invariant
Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.  A copy of the license
is included in the section entitled [[GNU Free Documentation
License|/fdl]]."]]"""]]

[[!tag open_issue_hurd]]

Collection about stuff that is relevant for *virtualization* and *networking*.

  * [[Virtual_Square_View-OS]]

  * [*Virtual Networks*](http://virtualsquare.org/vn.html)

  * [User Level Networking](http://uln.sourceforge.net/)

  * [Virtual Distributed Ethernet](http://vde.sourceforge.net/)

  * [Application Level
    Environment4Networking](http://sourceforge.net/projects/ale4net/)

    *Ale4NET used dyn library call diversion to define networking at process
    level.* -- what we're doing with our approach for overriding the default
    [[hurd/translator/pfinet]] by setting environment variables.

    Project is now part of [[Virtual_Square_View-OS]].


# OpenVPN

[[community/meetings/GHM2013]].

OpenVPN can use pfinet's tun as it is, and be configured completely as joe user,
as shown below. Note that the tun0 node name has to begin with "tun", so pfinet
knows it's a tun.

    $ mkdir -p $HOME/servers/socket
    $ touch $HOME/servers/tun0
    $ settrans -ca $HOME/servers/socket/2 /hurd/pfinet $HOME/servers/tun0 -a 10.0.0.1 -p 10.0.0.2
    $ cat vpn.conf
    client
    dev tun
    dev-node /home/samy/servers/tun0
    ...
    $ openvpn --config vpn.conf --verb 5
    ...

So we let openvpn running, and now we can make applications use the pfinet
TCP/IP stack started above: the remap command below starts a new shell, where
it redirects /servers/socket/2 (where the system TCP/IP stack resides) onto
$HOME/servers/socket/2 (where the new TCP/IP stack resides).

    $ remap /servers/socket/2 $HOME/servers/socket/2
    $ wget www.gnu.org

Ideally openvpn would be made to setup pfinet itself, but at least for now it
can be configured by hand like that.

It would probably be possible to make pfinet able to produce a tap too, would
need some code.

## IRC, freenode, #hurd, 2013-09-07

    <d3f> anyone here knows how /dev/net is handled on the hurd? Programs using
      it say it's not a directory. I tried creating one and setting a netdde
      translator for a tun device in it, but this may be wrong as it doesn't
      work
    <teythoon> d3f: what does /dev/net do?
    <teythoon> ah, its tun/tap stuff...
    <d3f> on my gnu/linux it includes a tun device
    <teythoon> right
    <d3f> I am still reading about the Hurd and try to understand /hurd/netdde
      and devnode but by now I am quite sure I will need those to set a tun
      networktranslator on /dev/net/tun?
    <teythoon> hm, I don't think netdde or devnode will be of any help
    <teythoon> afaiui devnode makes mach devices available in the hurdish way,
      i.e. available for lookup in the filesystem
    <teythoon> d3f: ping youpi if he shows up, he hacked up openvpn to work on
      the hurd
    <d3f> yeah I know, I talked to him as I am tring to get tinc working on the
      Hurd (tinc builds by now). I will give him a shot about creating the
      "tun" device

tun has indeed nothing to do with devnode and netdde, it's pfinet which creates it, as documented above.
