[[meta copyright="Copyright © 2007, 2008 Free Software Foundation, Inc."]]

[[meta license="""[[toggle id="license" text="GFDL 1.2+"]][[toggleable
id="license" text="Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this
document under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.2 or
any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no Invariant
Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.  A copy of the license
is included in the section entitled
[[GNU_Free_Documentation_License|/fdl]]."]]"""]]

## Setting up cvsfs on GNU/Hurd - A step by step process

### Description of cvsfs

cvsfs is a virtual ([[libnetfs]] based) filesystem allowing you to mount
remotely located CVS modules into your local filesystem.  The version
controlled files will appear to you just like regular ones.  If you just want
to view one file (or a small bunch) you furthermore save a lot of network
bandwidth since only these files will be downloaded.  The usual way to do so
would be to check out the whole tree and deleting it after using.

## Step by Step process in installing cvsfs

Download and prepare the source files from the CVS repositiory and build them.

    $ cvs -z3 -d:pserver:anonymous@cvs.savannah.nongnu.org:/sources/hurdextras co cvsfs
    $ cd cvsfs/
    $ autoreconf -i
    $ ./configure
    $ make
    $ make install

Set up the translator and start grazing.

    $ mkdir -p cvsfs_test
    $ settrans -a cvsfs_test /hurd/cvsfs cvs.sourceforge.net /cvsroot/projectname modulename
  
Example to mount the cvsfs module on hurdextras to a local directory.

    $ mkdir cvs.d
    $ settrans -ac cvs.d/cvsfs /hurd/cvsfs cvs.savannah.nongnu.org sources/hurdextras cvsfs

Now change to that directory and start using ls, emacs, and whatever you feel
like.  :-)

Happy Hacking.


## References

   * <http://www.nongnu.org/hurdextras/>
   * <http://cvs.sv.nongnu.org/viewcvs/*checkout*/cvsfs/README?root=hurdextras>
