[[!meta copyright="Copyright © 2013 Free Software Foundation, Inc."]]

[[!meta license="""[[!toggle id="license" text="GFDL 1.2+"]][[!toggleable
id="license" text="Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this
document under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.2 or
any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no Invariant
Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.  A copy of the license
is included in the section entitled [[GNU Free Documentation
License|/fdl]]."]]"""]]

The *fifo* translator implements named pipes (FIFOs).


# Open Issues

## Not Terminating

[[!tag open_issue_hurd]]


### IRC, OFTC, #debian-hurd, 2013-07-28

    <gg0> seems fifos started dying, as they should. am i wrong?
    <gg0> ( http://bugs.debian.org/629184 )
    <azeem> so you're saying the bug should be closed?
    <azeem> best to comment on the bug then
    <gg0> i didn't hear anyone working on it, so i'm a bit surprised
    <azeem> could be due to lower-level fixes to glibc or so
    <gg0> and given often(:|) i'm wrong, i was asking
    <pinotree> in two years there have been various changes in glibc and hurd
    <pinotree> (for example the switch to pthreads)
    <gg0> yeah seems fixed. mknod'ing one then removing it, doesn't leave any
      process around
    <gg0> cool
    <azeem> then please follow-up on the bug and/or close it
    <gg0> sure
    <gg0> the pleasure of closing it/them is yours
    <gg0> great job, whatever you did :)


### IRC, OFTC, #debian-hurd, 2013-07-29

    * gg0 wonders if it can close savannah one as
        wellhttps://savannah.gnu.org/bugs/?17128
    <pochu> gg0: wdym?
    <pochu> gg0: got an example?
    <gg0> http://bugs.debian.org/629184
    <gg0> i didn't close it myself


## IRC, OFTC, #debian-hurd, 2013-10-04

    <braunr> there is new-fifo, which you can try
    <braunr> i guess none of us know what it was really meant for
