[[!meta copyright="Copyright © 2012, 2013, 2014 Free Software Foundation,
Inc."]]

[[!meta license="""[[!toggle id="license" text="GFDL 1.2+"]][[!toggleable
id="license" text="Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this
document under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.2 or
any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no Invariant
Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.  A copy of the license
is included in the section entitled [[GNU Free Documentation
License|/fdl]]."]]"""]]

The *proc server* (or, *process server*) implements some aspects of [[Unix]]
processes.

It is stated by `/hurd/init`.


# "Unusual" PIDs

[[!tag open_issue_hurd]]


## IRC, freenode, #hurd, 2012-08-10

    <braunr> too bad the proc server has pid 0
    <braunr> top & co won't show it


## IRC, OFTC, #debian-hurd, 2012-09-18

    <pinotree> youpi: did you see
      https://enc.com.au/2012/09/careful-with-pids/'
    <pinotree> ?
    <youpi> nope


## IRC, OFTC, #debian-hurd, 2013-06-23

    <teythoon> I've got this idea about the pid 1 issue you mentioned
    <teythoon> can't we just make init pid 1?
    <teythoon> I mean the mapping is rather arbitrary, we could make our init
      pid 2 or something and start sysvs init as pid 1
    <pinotree> not totally sure it is that arbitrary up to the first 4-5 pids
    <teythoon> y is that?
    <pinotree> at least i see in hurd's code that /hurd/init is assumed as
      pid=1
    <teythoon> hurds init that has to stick around for the fs translator sync?
    <pinotree> hurd's init does the basic server startup
    <pinotree> iirc it also takes care of shutdown/reboot
    <teythoon> that's what I meant
    <teythoon> and if it wouldn't have to stick around for the translator sync
      it could just exec sysvinit
    <teythoon> I just think it's easier to patch hurd than to remove the
      assumption that init is pid 1 from sysvinit


## IRC, freenode, #hurd, 2013-09-13

    <braunr> teythoon: also, as a feature request, i'd like the proc server not
      to have pid 0, if you have any time to do that
    <braunr> so it appears in top and friends
    <teythoon> braunr: noted, that should be easy
    <teythoon> not using 0 is probably a good thing, many things use pid 0 as
      something special


## IRC, freenode, #hurd, 2013-09-25

    <braunr> so nice to finally see proc in top :)


# Process Discovery

## IRC, freenode, #hurd, 2013-08-26

    < teythoon> somewhat related, I do not like the way the proc server just
      creates processes for new mach tasks it discovers
    < teythoon> that does not play well with subhurds for example
    < braunr> teythoon: i agree with you on proc process-to-task mapping
    < braunr> that's something i intend to completely rework on propel
    < braunr> in a way similar to how pid namespaces work on linux


# PID "Races"

## IRC, freenode, #hurd, 2014-01-26

    <quotemstr> Does Hurd have anything that generally solves PID races?
    <youpi> what kind of race are you thinking about?
    <youpi> I'm not sure, but I guess keeping a reference to a task port will
      prevent the proc server from recycling the corresponding pid
    <quotemstr> Yep.
    <quotemstr> How does the Hurd avoid the obvious denial-of-service attack
      that results?
    <youpi> well quotas would probably be enough
    <youpi> that's not a new issue :)
    <quotemstr> Fair enough.
    <quotemstr> Returning to the POSIX-y world after a few year stint over in
      NT-land, it's infuriating that it's still not possible to write a
      reliable killall(1) under Linux or the BSDs.
    <quotemstr> I'm glad Hurd solves the problem. :-)
    <braunr> but it doesn't
    <braunr> how can you write a reliable killall ?
    <youpi> so keeping a reference to the task port is not enough?
    <braunr> i'm not sure
    <braunr> first i'd like quotemstr to clearly define the reliability problem
      of killall
    <quotemstr> braunr: The possibility that a PID might be used between the
      time you decide to kill it and the time you actually kill it.
    <braunr> well, it would have to wrap around for that
    <quotemstr> braunr: So? It's possible.
    <braunr> i guess that's what you refer to
    <braunr> ok
    <braunr> well yes, it's possible to easily create a routine that atomically
      increases the number of references on a task/process when looking it up
    <braunr> preventing its removal from the list of processes reported by the
      proc server
    <quotemstr> Like OpenProcess? :-) Would this reference count be
      automatically decremented if the task owning the reference is killed?
    <braunr> it would clearly not be a "posixy killall" then, but i suppose we
      don't care about that at all
    <braunr> no
    <quotemstr> Oh.
    <braunr> destroying an object doesn't remove its references 
    <quotemstr> So it's possible to leak the reference and prevent reuse of
      that PID forever.
    <braunr> hardly
    <braunr> for that, killall would have to run a long time
    <quotemstr> braunr: No, I'm talking about our hypothetical killall itself
      being killed after taking out a reference on another process, but before
      releasing it
    <braunr> but a malicious killall could
    <braunr> when a task is destroyed, its capability space is destroyed too
    <braunr> removing all the references it previously had
    <quotemstr> Ah, I see.
    <braunr> the leaks we have occur in servers
    <braunr> which sometimes act as clients to other servers
    <braunr> and run forever


# Crashes due to rpctrace

## IRC, freenode, #hurd, 2014-02-18

    <braunr> something is wrong in the proc server
    <braunr> rpctrace is often causing it to crash ..
