[[!meta copyright="Copyright © 2013 Free Software Foundation, Inc."]]

[[!meta license="""[[!toggle id="license" text="GFDL 1.2+"]][[!toggleable
id="license" text="Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this
document under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.2 or
any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no Invariant
Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.  A copy of the license
is included in the section entitled [[GNU Free Documentation
License|/fdl]]."]]"""]]

The `ufs` translator supports some kind of the Unix File System.  Beware, we're
not aware of anybody having used/tested it in ages, so maybe it is very broken
and will eat your data.


# IRC, freenode, #hurd, 2013-08-30

[[!tag open_issue_hurd]]

    <Arne`> There might be a copyright problem: <nalaginrut> well, there seems
      BSD-4clauses in the code:
      http://git.savannah.gnu.org/cgit/hurd/hurd.git/tree/ufs/alloc.c
    <Arne`> braunr, tschwinge: Do you have any info on that? 4-clause BSD and
      GPL on the same code are a license incompatibility… 
    <tschwinge> Arne`: I've put it onto my (long) TODO list.
    <tschwinge> Easiest solution might be: rm -rf ufs.
    <nalaginrut> will these affected code rewritten? or just modify license?
    <mark_weaver> only the regents of the University of California could choose
      to modify the license.
    <youpi> nalaginrut: one can't modify a licence if one is not the author
    <youpi> we can simply dump the code
    <mark_weaver> s/author/owner/
    <tschwinge> As I suppose ufs is unused/untested for a decade or so, I'd
      have no issues with simply removing it from the tree, together with
      ufs-fsck and ufs-utils.
    <pinotree> tschwinge: or maybe extract the ufs stuff in an own repo, to be
      imported as branch in incubator or own hurd/ufs.git?
    <tschwinge> Sure, why not.
