[[!meta copyright="Copyright © 2007, 2008 Free Software Foundation, Inc."]]

[[!meta license="""[[!toggle id="license" text="GFDL 1.2+"]][[!toggleable
id="license" text="Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this
document under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.2 or
any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no Invariant
Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.  A copy of the license
is included in the section entitled
[[GNU Free Documentation License|/fdl]]."]]"""]]

# Some Quick Notes About the *TWiki to ikiwiki* Conversion

/!\ Incomplete.

I saw a *moin2iki* program bundle being announced from
<http://ikiwiki.info/index/discussion/#index2h1>.

    <tschwinge> JoshTriplett: On http://ikiwiki.info/users/joshtriplett.html
      you write about a TWiki to ikiwiki conversion script.  Is that already
      available somewhere?
    <JoshTriplett> tschwinge: Yes, you can get it in its current state at
      git://svcs.cs.pdx.edu/git/moin2iki.git
    <JoshTriplett> tschwinge: That repo has scripts for converting from Moin
      and TWiki to ikiwiki.
    <JoshTriplett> tschwinge: Work in progress.
    <JoshTriplett> tschwinge: For a purely TWiki setup, it should work fine.
    <JoshTriplett> tschwinge: You need a number of depenencies, though, and we
      haven't documented them well yet.
    <tschwinge> JoshTriplett: Thanks, I'll have a look and report back (in some
      days, I hope).
    <JoshTriplett> tschwinge: In particular, you need HTML::WikiConverter with
      our 12 ikiwiki-related patches.
    <JoshTriplett> tschwinge:
      http://rt.cpan.org/Public/Bug/Display.html?id=24446

As I had difficulties with extracting the patches from the cpan site, they were
also made available by the authors at
<http://svcs.cs.pdx.edu/~jamey/wikiconverter/>.

The Debian package *libhtml-wikiconverter-perl* is too old at least until
[[!debbug 419918]] is closed.

For converting from rcs files (as used by TWiki) to a git repository you'll
need to get `git clone git://people.freedesktop.org/~keithp/parsecvs` and build
it.  Or don't do that and install the Debian *git-cvs* package instead; see
below.

Here is the command line I used (line breaks added for readability) to create
an *Authors* file from the TWiki files, suitable for *parsecvs* or
*git-cvsimport* to use:

    $ sort < data/Main/TWikiUsers.txt | uniq | ↩
        while read s n r; do ↩
          ( [ "$s" != \* ] || expr "$r" : .\*\< > /dev/null) && continue; ↩
          echo "$n"="$(recode Latin1..UTF-8 < data/Main/"$n".txt | ↩
            awk -v name="$n" 'BEGIN { FS = ": "; email = "web-hurd@gnu.org" } ↩
              { sub("\r$", "") } $1 ~ /\* Name$/ { name = $2 } ↩
              $1 ~ /\* Email$/ { email = $2 } ↩
              END { print name " <" email ">" }')"; ↩
        done | tee Authors

The old TWiki installation had managed to corrupt one of its own rcs files,
which both *parsecvs* and *git-cvsimport* stumbled on.  As that file was not
essential for me, I simply deleted it.

The final output (after the TWiki markup to Markdown markup conversion) was
expected to pour out *.mdwn* files.  However the original TWiki files are named
*.txt*.  As the *git-map* step as yet (would this be possible at all?) has no
way to rename the files while converting, I simply adapted the input files'
names to what was expected: I ran a the following command to rename the
*.txt,v* files to *.mdwn,v* files before running *git-cvsimport*:

    $ find ./ | grep \\.txt,v | while read f; do ↩
        mv -vi "$f" "$(expr "$f" : \\\(.\*\\\)\\.txt,v)".mdwn,v; done

Instead of using *parsecvs* (which finally even choked on the valid rcs input
files) I eventually ended up successfully converting the old TWiki with
*git-cvsimport*:

    $ git-cvsimport -v -d "`pwd`"/../hurd-wiki/ -z 0 -a -A ../Authors data
    [...]
    Committed patch 4698 (origin +0000 2007-04-13 17:40:08)
    Commit ID c33d05d0274d0d602fba835805abb9ba413c65c6
    Generating pack...
    Done counting 18576 objects.
    Deltifying 18576 objects...
     100% (18576/18576) done
    Writing 18576 objects...
     100% (18576/18576) done
    Total 18576 (delta 12567), reused 16106 (delta 10886)
    Pack pack-d38e3d55705f5d355f669aaa7d993420b50798d0 created.
    Removing unused objects 100%...
    Done.
    DONE; creating master branch

The only thing I had to do to make the conglomerate of rcs files a *valid* cvs
repository (read: to satisfy *git-cvsimport*'s needs) was a `mkdir
../hurd-wiki/CVSROOT`.

Then let's convert the whole git tree from TWiki syntax to Markdown:

    $ TWIKI="`pwd`"/../hurd-wiki tw_2001-12-01_2iki "`pwd`"/.git
    [...]

After that I repeated -- in a separate directory!, they can be merged later --
the same last steps again, replacing *data* with *pub*, which contains the data
files that had been attached to the wiki pages (like images, for example).
