[[!meta copyright="Copyright © 2008, 2009, 2010, 2011, 2012, 2013, 2014, 2015 Free
Software Foundation, Inc."]]

[[!meta license="""[[!toggle id="license" text="GFDL 1.2+"]][[!toggleable
id="license" text="Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this
document under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.2 or
any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no Invariant
Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.  A copy of the license
is included in the section entitled [[GNU Free Documentation
License|/fdl]]."]]"""]]

[[!meta title="Google Summer of Code"]]

<!--
The Google Summer of Code 2014 is over.  Chances are that we will again be
participating in 2015, stay tuned.
-->

We're in!  The GNU Hurd project is again participating in the [Google Summer of
Code](http://www.google-melange.com/) under the [GNU
umbrella](http://www.gnu.org/software/soc-projects/).

This year's *student application period* is over.  Thanks for sending in your
applications!  We're now reviewing and discussing these, so please pay
attention to any questions posted on your proposal's page.  The Google site's
notification system should be sending out emails, too.

Per the [Google Summer of Code 2015 Program
Timeline](http://www.google-melange.com/gsoc/events/google/gsoc2015),
we're now waiting for Google to announce the number of slots that the whole GNU
project gets, and we'll be discussing with our GNU peers about how to split
these up among all the GNU subprojects.
<!--
from 2015-03-16 to 2015-03-27, it's the *student application period*, which
is plenty of time for preparing and discussing your applications -- but please
don't wait to the last minute!
-->

As we only have finite resources (meaning that we won't be able to accept all
GNU Hurd applications even if we wanted to), we will eventually need to make a
choice about whom to select.  For this, it is a very good idea to be in contact
with us, be it by answering the evaluators' questions on your proposal's page,
or by talking to us on the [[mailing_lists]] or on [[IRC]].  At this time, it
is important for us to get a good impression about the seriousness you're
showing with your application.

If you intend to apply for any such projects in the future, it's a good idea to
already start perparing for it now: the sooner, the better.
It is a good idea to get familiar with the GNU Hurd, by reading some of our
[[documentation]], and by using a GNU/Hurd system.  It is also a good idea to
send in some basic patches (as mentioned in our
[[student_application_form]]), and talk to us on the [[mailing_lists]] or
on [[IRC]], for example about the principal steps you're
planning on doing in your intended work area.
Of course, we don't expect you
to already start working seriously on your project, but any input you're giving
us will make it easier for us to justify selectiong your specific proposal.  At
this time, it is not quantity that matters, and it also is not *the perfect
patch* we're waiting for, but it is rather that we see how you're generally
able to work with the code.

If you have any questions, don't be shy: please ask!  Nobody expects you to
know everything.  Even for the long-term Hurd contributors it is common to
openly post messages to [[mailing_lists/bug-hurd]] saying: *Hey, I don't know
how to do `X`, can someone please help me?*  And, as we're not working next to
each other in a conventional office or university setup, we'll need to
establish and get used to different communication channels.


# Possible projects

We have a list of [[project_ideas]], and students are likewise encouraged to
submit their own project proposals.  Please follow our
[[student_application_form]].

<!--
Then, don't forget to visit <http://www.google-melange.com/>, and press the
button for submitting your proposal.
-->

Please read up about [[contributing]] in general, and please ask any questions
you might have, on the [[mailing_lists]], or on [[IRC]], for example at one of
our [[regular_IRC_meetings|IRC#regular_meetings]].  Generally it's a good idea
to [[get in contact with us|contact_us]] as soon as you're beginning to spend
time on a project.


## Outside of the GSoC Scope

Working on one of these projects is generally a good opportunity to get started
with Hurd development, even outside of the GSoC context.  Please don't hesitate
to contact us regarding mentoring even if it's not GSoC time at the moment, or
if you aren't a student anyway.


# History

In 2006 and [[2007]], we participated in GSoC under the umbrella of the GNU
project, getting one slot each year.  In the following year, we successfully
participated on our own, instead of as a suborganization of the GNU project.
Read about our five students' success on the [[2008]] page.  In the next years,
we again participated under the GNU umbrella with one slot in [[2009]], three
in [[2010]], one in [[2011]], two in [[2012]], three in [[2013]] (one GNU, one
GCC, one Debian), one in [[2014]].
