[[!meta copyright="Copyright © 2005, 2006, 2007, 2008, 2009, 2010, 2011 Free
Software Foundation, Inc."]]

[[!meta license="""[[!toggle id="license" text="GFDL 1.2+"]][[!toggleable
id="license" text="Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this
document under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.2 or
any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no Invariant
Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.  A copy of the license
is included in the section entitled [[GNU Free Documentation
License|/fdl]]."]]"""]]

[[!tag open_issue_documentation]]

# Using Partitions

[[IRC]], #hurd, 2007-07-04.

    <azeem-uni> so, is there a way to use a Debian GNU/Hurd partition
      (/dev/hda6) with qemu directly?
    <tschwinge> Don't dare to do that, please.
    <tschwinge> It will lead to inconsistencies.
    <tschwinge> Because the Linux kernel thinks that it has complete control
      over the disk, or something.
    <tschwinge> In theory you could run something like ``-hda /dev/hda'',
      having GRUB installed on there to offer you to boot your Hurd system from
      hda6 and that will even work, but then don't get the idea to stop qemu,
      mount that partition on your Linux system and restart qemu.  That's where
      I got lots of inconsistencies then, afterwards.
    <azeem-uni> it's probably the same problem as having that partition
      mounted, suspending to disk, booting into it in the Hurd, and resume
      Linux
    <neal> right
    <tschwinge> That's a different problem.
    <tschwinge> Then the partitoon is still mounted.
    <neal> no, I think it is basically the same problem
    <tschwinge> The file system stuff is cached in the kernel.
    <neal> you have data that has not been written to disk yet
    <tschwinge> Right.
    <neal> and neither is prepared for the resource to be shared
    <tschwinge> In the azeem-uni scenarion the data is on the file system layer
      and in my scenarion it's some disk block caching inside the Linux kernel,
      I guess.
    <azeem-uni> anyway, do you guys think if I use -hda /dev/hda and tell Grub
      to boot off /dev/hda6, that the rest of hda should be fine, right?
    <azeem-uni> maybe adding -snapshot makes it totally safe
    <neal> azeem: Should be fine.
    <tschwinge> Yes.

The problem is actually that the linux block cache doesn't make any consistency
between /dev/hda and /dev/hda6, so if you give /dev/hda to qemu, qemu writings
won't be consistent with mounting /dev/hda6 in linux. You can give /dev/hda6
directly to qemu and it will be fine.


# Host-side Writeback Caching

IRC, freenode, #hurd, 2011-06-07

    <braunr> hm, i guess i should have used cache=writeback with kvm before
      starting the debian installer :/
    <braunr> ah yes, much better
    <braunr> this shows how poor the state of our I/O drivers and subsystem is
      :/
    <antrik> indeed... still no clustered pageout :-(
    <braunr> and no I/O scheduler either
    <braunr> although an I/O scheduler has limited value without clustered
      pageouts
    <braunr> since one of its goals is to pack related I/O requests together eh
    <braunr> i wonder if the wiki mentions using cache=writeback to speed up
      qemu performances
    <braunr> it would help those unable to use kvm a lot
    <braunr> and even those running kvm too
    <braunr> kvm -m $RAM \ -monitor stdio \ -drive
      cache=writeback,index=0,media=disk,file=hd0.img \
    <braunr> etc..
    <braunr> the idea is that qemu doesn't open its disk file synchronously
    <braunr> changes are queued in the host page cache before being flushed to
      the disk image
    <braunr> but if you brutally close your qemu instance, you're likely to
      loose file system consistency
    <braunr> ext2fs will think it has committed its metadata to the disk, but
      the disk image won't be updated synchronously
    <braunr> on my machine (which is quite fast), my kvm has installed debian
      like 10 times faster than without the option
    <antrik> braunr: I don't think killing qemu should hurt in this
      case... probably only matters when the host machine dies
    <braunr> antrik: ah yes, right
    <braunr> it really makes everything faster, even downloading, since I/O
      requests aren't interleaved between networking RPCs
    <antrik> regarding I/O sheduler... this discussion came up before, but I
      don't remember the outcome -- doesn't the glued Linux driver actually
      come with one?
    <braunr> i don't remember either
    <antrik> braunr: err... I don't think interleaving has anything to do with
      it... I guess it's simply the fact that downloading writes the result to
      disk, which suffers from lacking clustered pageout like everything else
    <antrik> (my internet connection is too slow though to notice :-) )
    <braunr> well, if there is no I/O during downloading, downloading is faster
      :)

IRC, freenode, #hurd, 2011-06-08

    <braunr> youpi: does xen provide disk caching options ?
    <youpi> through a blktap, probably
    <braunr> ok

([[microkernel/mach/gnumach/ports/Xen]], *Host-side Writeback Caching*.)

    <braunr> we should find the pages mentioning qemu on the wiki and add the
      options to enable disk image caching
    <braunr> it really makes the hurd run a lot faster
    <braunr> as a workaround for emulators until I/O is reworked, ofc

IRC, freenode, #hurd, 2011-06-09

    <gnu_srs> braunr recommends to use writeback caching with kvm. Is this
      really recommended with the frequent crashes I experience?
    <youpi> provided that you terminate your kvm normaly (i.e. quitting it, not
      killing it), there should be no difference
    <jkoenig> I think the host's stability is what matters
    <jkoenig> the data presumably sits in linux's cache even if qemu dies
      violently
    <gnu_srs> But the freezes I see force me to kill kvm :-(
    <youpi> maybe kvm doesn't even do caching indeed, I don't know
    <youpi> gnu_srs: you can quit even when frozen
    <youpi> use the console
    <youpi> (the kvm console)
    <jkoenig> gnu_srs, "Writeback caching will report data writes as completed
      as soon as the data is present in the host page cache.  This is safe as
      long as you trust your host.  If your host crashes or loses power, then
      the guest may experience data corruption." (from the qemu manpage)

IRC, freenode, #hurd, 2011-06-11

    <gnu_srs> braunr: If you are online. For me setting the parameters -drive
      cache=writeback,index=0,media=disk,file=hd0.img does not show any speed
      improvement at all compared to the default.
    <braunr> gnu_srs: what's your complete qemu command line ?
    <gnu_srs> kvm -m 1024 -net nic,model=rtl8139 -net
      user,hostfwd=tcp::5556-:22 -drive
      cache=writeback,index=0,media=disk,file=hd0.img -cdrom netinst.iso
    <braunr> what qemu version ?
    <gnu_srs>  qemu-kvm  0.14.1+dfsg-1: Sorry, I cannot be online until
      tomorrow again.
