[[!meta copyright="Copyright © 2007, 2008, 2012 Free Software Foundation,
Inc."]]

[[!meta license="""[[!toggle id="license" text="GFDL 1.2+"]][[!toggleable
id="license" text="Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this
document under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.2 or
any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no Invariant
Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.  A copy of the license
is included in the section entitled [[GNU Free Documentation
License|/fdl]]."]]"""]]

Welcome, This document is for getting you started in a few minutes.

1. Install Qemu for Windows

    The executable can be downloaded from
    <http://free.oszoo.org/ftp/qemu/win32/release/> Doble click on the
    installer and follow the instructions.

2. Obtain Qemu image 

    * Debian GNU/Hurd qemu image can be downloaded from
        <http://www.numenor.art.pl/balrog/hurd/>, but also see the main
        [[QEMU]] page.
    * Uncompress the image and rename it to debian-hurd-for-qemu.img (.img is
        the only thing that matters, you can chose any name) Note: .img is for
        QEMUMenu.bat, which saves you from remembering the command line options
        of qemu and helps you change the settings (like chosing different
        images, allocating RAM for the guest OS ...) interactivly.
    * Copy this file to the directory where you installed Qemu.

3. Start Qemu

    Double click the QEMUMenu.bat and enter the number to chose between images.

4. Qemu short cuts

    * ctrl alt - to exit grab from qemu, get mouse cursor out from the qemu
        window
    * ctrl alt f - full screen
    * ctrl alt 2 - qemu contrl console, use this to change devices
        (eg. changing cdrom), send keys to the guest (for example if you want
        to send ctrl alt del to the guest type "sendkey ctrl-alt-del" ... type
        "help" for a listing of all the options.
    * ctrl alt 1 - Hurd login console

## QEmu Image Hangs on Boot
The Debian GNU/Hurd K16 QEmu image hangs during the boot process. You may have better luck by converting the image to qcow format

    ..\qemu-0.9.0-x86\qemu-img.exe convert debian-hurd-k16-qemu.img -O qcow debian-hurd-k16-qemu.qcow
    ..\qemu-0.9.0-x86\qemu.exe -L ..\qemu-0.9.0-x86 -m 512 -drive cache=writeback,file=debian-hurd-k16-qemu.qcow -localtime -M pc
