# <a name="Setting_up_GNUstep_on_the_Hurd"> </a> Setting up GNUstep on the Hurd

GNUstep is not available on the Debian distribution for GNU/Hurd, but it can be built manually. This is, how to do it.

#### <a name="Prerequisites"> Prerequisites </a>

This packages should already be installed (Debian package names in brackets): ffcall (libffcall1, libffcall1-dev), libffi (libffi4), libffi4-dev, openssl (openssl), libtiff (libtiff4), libpng (libpng12-0, libpng3), libjpg (libjpeg62), libxml (libxml1, libxml2, libxml2-dev &amp; dependencies), xslt (libxslt1.1, libxslt1-dev &amp; dependencies), ssl (libssl0.9.8, libssl-dev), libungif4-dev libungif4g, aspell (libaspell15, libaspell-dev, aspell &amp; apspell-[for your language, e. g. en]) windowmaker (wmaker), Objective-C-Compiler (gobjc and depending packages)

#### <a name="Getting_the_sources"> Getting the sources </a>

To do an up-to-date-installation, download the daily snapshot from GNUstep into one new directory and unzip/untar them:

    wget ftp://ftp.gnustep.org/pub/daily-snapshots/core.current.tar.bz2

#### <a name="Building_GNUstep"> </a> Building GNUstep

Everything needed for the GNUstep base system is included into the expanded tarball. This is how to build it:

Do the following installation as root!

    cd core/make
    ./configure
    make && make install
    cd ..
    . /usr/GNUstep/System/Library/Makefiles/GNUstep.sh  (see the dot at the begin!)
    cd ../base
    ./configure
    Edit the file Headers/Additions/GNUstepBase/config.h and add "#define BROKEN_SO_REUSEADDR 1" somewhere
    make && make install
    cd ../gui
    ./configure
    make && make install
    cd ../back
    make && make install

Now, you've built the GNUstep base system. When you want to start a GNUstep application later or want to build one, open a bash shell and enter this command:

    . /usr/GNUstep/System/Library/Makefiles/GNUstep.sh

This sets some necessary environment variables.

#### <a name="Building_GNUstep_apps"> </a> Building GNUstep apps

You can find some GNUstep applications here: <http://www.gnustep.org/experience/apps.html>

and here: [http://mediawiki.gnustep.org/index.php/Main\_Page](http://mediawiki.gnustep.org/index.php/Main_Page)

#### <a name="Known_problems"> Known problems </a>

##### <a name="GNUMail"> </a> GNUMail

After starting GNUMail, you can only once get mails from a pop3-server. If you want to fetch mails again, you have to restart it.

##### <a name="GWorkspace_0_8"> GWorkspace 0.8 </a>

GWorkspace 0.8 expects a /etc/mtab file. If you want to use it, you must manually make this file.

Example for a /etc/mtab file:

    /dev/hd0s1 / ext2 rw 1 1

----

-- Thomas Schlesinger - 03 Mar 2006
