Many thanks to [[Main/JoachimNilsson]] for his work to establish and help update this Hurd Wiki! You have been extremely kind with your efforts in creating the new GNU skin and all of the expected and unexpected administrative work that's been needed to establish this Wiki.

Now that the site is established, the traffic levels are growing and the value of the site is evident. This will affect the current host since its bandwidth is quite limited. Therefore a new permanent host must be located. We would like it to offer the following:

* Free bandwidth
* At least one GiB of quota
* Availability 24/7
* Shell access for at least one person for administrational purposes
* Possibly in the U.S. due to "click-n-approve" copyright assignment of material to the FSF (see [[HurdWikiCopyrightDiscuss]]).
* Regular backups
* Other?

Comment on this page or email the maintainer <joachim@gnufansNOSPAM.org>

Potential places to move Hurd Twiki to in order of preference:

* savannah.gnu.org
* Some other \*.gnu.org site
* Other site in the U.S. or country with similar copyright laws.

----

I favor removing gnu.org from the above list. There are copyright issues that are technically impossible to address in the way that RMS wants copyright assigned to all content hosted on gnu.org. While we probably could bend over backwards to accomodate it, fundamentally I think that this and other potential problems are not worth the effort of making this Hurd Twiki an official part of the GNU project.

Technically I think that savannah.gnu.org might be possible but I will defer to others for a decision from this perspective. Assuming it's possible, I think we may have similar problems as above.

I favor looking for another solution, an "other".

-- [[Main/GrantBow]] - 22 Sep 2002

Refactoring and updating.

The copyright issues we have to straighten out anyway. If someone wants to make a CD set of the "manual" we have created here and that content later on gets misused we need to defend our rights. Using the GNU [[GNU/FreeDocumentationLicense]] and assigning the copyright to the FSF will help us achieve this. The FSF can fight for us instead of all the writers trying to get together.

-- [[Main/JoachimNilsson]] - 23 Oct 2002

Joachim, how are we doing on bandwidth usage? Is it growing, decreasing, about the same? What measure should we be looking at to keep an eye on the situation? I am sure lots of people really appreciate your hosting this site for free. I'm of course one of them!

-- [[Main/GrantBow]] - 01 Jan 2003

I have [the statistics](http://hurd.gnufans.org/webalizer/) under observation and thus far it looks very good. There really isn't much traffic at all, [compared to](http://vmlinux.org/webalizer/) the machine we host gnufans.org on. One tenth of the traffic to vmlinux.org.

Occasionally I talk to one of the guys at [QuickNet](http://www.quicknet.se) about the hosting and our (vmlinux.org's) bandwidth usage. He has assured me that there is no problem at all, in fact, they have increased the overall capacity of their hosting capabilites, so now our traffic is no more than a drop in the ocean to them. :)

I'll keep you (all) informed if there is any change in status of the hosting.

Furthermore, I've been looking into the copyright assignment issues we talked about a while ago now. It seems RMS is right. At least in Sweden transfer of copyright can be made by a user in the way he descibed in the email conversation we had. The provision is that the user must **_actively_** select a checkbox or similar which says something like:

* _"I hereby assign the copyrights of my work to the FSF"_

This means that the copyright is also owned by the FSF, the original author can never lose his rights to a work. The copyright assignment is useful when there is a license violation, bacause then the FSF can fight on behalf of the copyright owners without having to ask them all.

Well, this post somewhat "nullifies" many of the claims made at the beginning of this topic. Maybe I should refactor it a bit to better suit the current circumstances?

-- [[Main/JoachimNilsson]] - 01 Jan 2003
