[[!meta copyright="Copyright © 2008, 2009 Free Software Foundation, Inc."]]

[[!meta license="""[[!toggle id="license" text="GFDL 1.2+"]][[!toggleable
id="license" text="Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this
document under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.2 or
any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no Invariant
Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.  A copy of the license
is included in the section entitled
[[GNU Free Documentation License|/fdl]]."]]"""]]

Check out Viengoos and switch to the viengoos-on-bare-metal branch
(all development is currently done on this branch and it will
eventually be merged into the master branch):

    $ git clone git://git.savannah.gnu.org/hurd/viengoos.git
    $ cd viengoos
    $ git checkout -b viengoos-on-bare-metal origin/viengoos-on-bare-metal

Generate the autoconf environment (note that --force is not specified
as we have our own version of config.guess and config.sub):

    $ autoreconf -i

Configure a build directory:

    $ mkdir build
    $ cd build
    $ ../configure --host=x86_64-pc-viengoos-gnu --with-newlib

Now, build Viengoos.  Running make the first time will automatically
fetch binutils and gcc from the Internet and build a cross compiler.
Running make again will build the Viengoos proper.  Again, the build
process with fetch several tarballs including Newlib, the Boehm GC and
Sqlite.

    $ make
    ...
    The cross compiler is now set-up.  Re-run `make' and proceed as usual.
    make[2]: Leaving directory `.../viengoos/build'
    make[1]: Leaving directory `.../viengoos/build'
    $ make

# Booting Using QEMU

To boot Viengoos, use Grub 2.  You cannot use Grub Legacy: Viengoos is
an ELF64 executable, which Grub Legacy does not support.

First, check out Grub 2 from svn:

    $ svn co svn://svn.savannah.gnu.org/grub/trunk/grub2
    $ cd grub2

Before building Grub 2, you should apply the following patch, which
makes it easy to tell Grub to load a specific grub.cfg at start up
([details](http://lists.gnu.org/archive/html/grub-devel/2009-01/msg00099.html)).

    $ wget http://www.gnu.org/software/hurd/microkernel/viengoos/grub2-config.diff -O /dev/stdout | patch -p0

Next, build Grub 2:

    $ ./autogen.sh
    $ mkdir build
    $ cd build
    $ ../configure --prefix=`pwd`/../install
    $ make && make install

Create the boot disk:

    $ cd ../install
    $ bin/grub-mkrescue boot.img  --configfile="(hd0,1)/grub.cfg" --image-type=floppy --modules='help reboot serial multiboot pc configfile normal boot fat'

Now, create /viengoos and link viengoos and hieronymus into that
directory:

    $ mkdir /viengoos
    $ cd /viengoos
    $ ln -s ~/viengoos/build/viengoos/viengoos.stripped viengoos
    $ ln -s ~/viengoos/build/hieronymus/hieronymus.stripped hieronymus

Also, create a grub.cfg file in /viengoos/grub.cfg:

    set timeout=1
    set default=0
    set root=hd0,1
    
    menuentry "Viengoos" {
        multiboot /viengoos -D 3 -o serial
        module /hieronymus
    }

NB: If you edit grub.cfg and a backup file called grub.cfg~ is
created, qemu will use grub.cfg~ instead of grub.cfg!  Thus, after
editing grub.cfg, be sure to delete any grub.cfg~ file!

Finally, boot!

    $ qemu-system-x86_64 -serial stdio -fda ~/grub2/install/boot.img -hda fat:/viengoos -boot a

By default, Hieronymus is configured to load ruth, a test suite.  Ruth
can take a long time to complete.
