[[!meta copyright="Copyright © 2008 Free Software Foundation, Inc."]]

[[!meta license="""[[!toggle id="license" text="GFDL 1.2+"]][[!toggleable
id="license" text="Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this
document under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.2 or
any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no Invariant
Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.  A copy of the license
is included in the section entitled
[[GNU Free Documentation License|/fdl]]."]]"""]]

I boot over the network using PXE.

On my build machine, I have installed a tftpserver.  Specifically, I use
the one built into dnscache.  In /tftpboot, I have symlinks to pistachio,
sigma0, and the root of the build tree.

My build machine boots using PXE.  It gets an IP address, contacts
my build machine and loads [grub2pxe](http://grub.enbug.org/PXEBOOT).
Note that there is no need to use pxelinux; grub2 is a valid PXE
executable.  Further, grub2 uses the PXE interface for accessing the
network, so if your hardware supports PXE, then you do not need to
worry about a network driver.  Here is how I build grub2 and the
grub2 image:

    cd ~/src
    svn co svn://svn.savannah.gnu.org/grub/trunk/grub2
    cd grub2
    mkdir build
    cd build
    ../configure --prefix=$HOME/src/grub2/install && make && make install
    cd ~/src/grub2/install
    bin/grub-mkimage --output=core.img --prefix="(pxe)" pxe pxecmd help reboot serial multiboot pc configfile normal boot
    cat lib/grub/i386-pc/pxeboot.img core.img > grub2pxe

Here is my /tftpboot/grub.cfg, which sends output to the first
[[serial_port]]:

    # Timeout for menu
    set timeout=1
    
    # Set default boot entry as Entry 0
    set default=0
    
    menuentry "Viengoos" {
        multiboot /viengoos/laden/laden -o serial -D
        module /pistachio
        module /sigma0
        module /viengoos/viengoos/viengoos.stripped -D 3 -o serial
        module /viengoos/hieronymus/hieronymus.stripped
    }
