**_This page describes the Debian packaging policy for translators._**

## <a name="Package_Naming_Scheme"> Package Naming Scheme </a>

Candidates for package naming schemes (_foofs_ is a filesystem based translator, e.g. _tarfs_, _bar_ is a node based translator, e.g. _random_):

* _foofs-translator_, _bar-translator_ [current favourite]

* _foofs_, _bar_ [this will make searching somewhat more of a hassle and may easily conflict with already used package names]

* _foofs-trans_, _bar-trans_

* _hurd-translator-foofs_, _hurd-translator-bar_

Do we need to destinguish between file system and node based translators?

Source packages should be called whatever the tarball/cvs module says.

## <a name="Where_to_Put_Files"> Where to Put Files </a>

The translators should go into _/hurd_.

## <a name="What_about_setting_passive_trans"> What about setting passive translators in _/servers_ or _/dev_? </a>

The idea is that the package should set passive translators in its _postinst_ instructions.

There may, however, be difficulties with that: it's perfectly valid to have two different _random_ translator packages installed (they won't conflict with each other as long as their file names don't clash), but which one should sit on _/dev/random_ and _/dev/urandom_? Debian's _alternatives system_ doesn't help here, because the translators may need different command line arguments.

One idea is to have the _postinst_ instructions set the passive translator if there isn't already one set on the relevant node(s).

## <a name="Short_Long_Description_Guideline"> Short/Long Description Guidelines </a>

    [packagename]: Foo translator for [doing bar].
    Foo is a GNU/Hurd translator which does [bar].

## <a name="Miscellaneous"> Miscellaneous </a>

There could / should be a meta package (or even more than one) that just depends e.g. on all installable translators, so that they'll conveniently find their way into the system by just installing that meta package.

-- [[Main/MichaelBanck]] - 10 Mar 2006
