[[!meta copyright="Copyright © 2011, 2012, 2013, 2014, 2015 Free Software
Foundation, Inc."]]

[[!meta license="""[[!toggle id="license" text="GFDL 1.2+"]][[!toggleable
id="license" text="Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this
document under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.2 or
any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no Invariant
Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.  A copy of the license
is included in the section entitled [[GNU Free Documentation
License|/fdl]]."]]"""]]

[[!tag open_issue_porting]]

# Open Issues

  * [[!debbug 616290]]

  * [[Proper Hurdy DHCP support|hurd/translator/pfinet/dhcp]]

  * [[!message-id desc="dhclient aborting with a stack smashing error"
    "874ngfvwn4.fsf@kepler.schwinge.homeip.net"]]

    IRC, freenode, #hurd, 2013-08-21:

        <teythoon> yay, I fixed the path of the dhcp leases file...
        <teythoon> ... and now dhclient dies of a buffer overflow
        <teythoon> fortunately the fix is rather simple, anyone who cares about
          the security of his box just has to stop using isc software
        <teythoon> the code is full of stuff like char foo[100]; /* surely
          that's enough */
        <pinotree> note that our version of isc-dchp (the one in ports) is
          older than the latest one available in unstable (which is still older
          than the latest upstream releases)
        <teythoon> so?
        <pinotree> dunno, might have been fixed or not
        <teythoon> ^^ yeah sure
        <gnu_srs> A lot of software has these limitations and PATH_MAX,
          MAXPATHLEN issues :(
        <pinotree> having a limitation is not a problem per-se
        <teythoon> no, only software written in c has these kind of problems
        <pinotree> the problem is not checking whether the limits are hit
        <teythoon> well, looking at the source of isc-dhcp my time is better
          spent making another dhcp client work on hurd
        <teythoon> also reading up on bug #616290 does make me want to avoid
          touching it ever
        <braunr> hehe
        <gnu_srs> teythoon: somebody was offering an alternative to the isc
          dhcpclient, but I think it was rejected by Samuel?
        <teythoon> why would he do that?
        <braunr> probably for compliance
        <gnu_srs> He probably thought they would release a new version soon, is
          4.3.0 out yet?
        <teythoon> well, as soon as my fixes for ifupdown go in, dhclient will
          start crashing
        <teythoon> no, there is no new version released
        <teythoon> no major one that is
        <teythoon> 4.2.5 is out
        <gnu_srs> can't you just increase the buffer size, where is the problem
          exactly?
        <teythoon> I have no idea
        <gnu_srs> The Hurd patches are not in 4.2.5, they were promised for
          4.3.0a1. 
        <gnu_srs> Still the buffer overflow problem might be present in 4.2.5
          if patched to build on Hurd.
        <braunr> there, darnassus now has a fully featured git/gitweb service
        <teythoon> :)
        <teythoon> btw, I managed to reproduce the crash reliably
        <teythoon> rm /var/lib/dhcp/*; dhclient -v /dev/eth0  ... *boom*
        <teythoon> ditch the -v, everything works, and now that there is a
          lease file, you can add the -v again and it works
        <braunr> ew :)
        <teythoon> and what has dhclient.c to say for its defense?
        <teythoon> log_info("%s", "");
        <teythoon> hm, not much :/

    IRC, freenode, #hurd, 2013-08-22:

        <teythoon> uh, the isc-dhcp situation is a huge pita, the source on
          -ports does not compile anymore :/

    IRC, freenode, #hurd, 2013-08-23:

        <gnu_srs> teythoon: Was it the slash in the network interface names
          that caused the buffer overflow in dhclient? 
        <teythoon> gnu_srs: no, previously no dhcp leases file was written and
          everything was fine
        <pinotree> teythoon: did you really develop your patch against that old
          version of ifupdown?
        <teythoon> gnu_srs: now it is written, and for some reason dhclient
          crashes *iff* -v is given *and* there is no previous lease file
        <teythoon> pinotree: no, I did not. that was only reportbug including
          information from my desktop machine without asking me
        <teythoon> but when I first looked at ifupdown it was still a 6000
          lines noweb file >,<
        <teythoon> that was fun
        <pinotree> which version is it against?
        <teythoon> hg tip

    IRC, freenode, #hurd, 2013-08-30:

        <tschwinge> teythoon: I understand correctly that you found that
          id:"874ngfvwn4.fsf@kepler.schwinge.homeip.net" in fact was really
          "just" a buffer overflow in the dhclient code?
        <teythoon> tschwinge: ah, most interesting, I didn't realize that you
          stumbled across this as well
        <teythoon> to be honest I don't know what's going on there, I only
          observed what I wrote in my report
        <teythoon> for me it started crashing once the lease file was actually
          a valid path (i.e. not to a non-existing directory b/c of the slashes
          in /dev/eth0)
        <teythoon> I tried to rebuild the package served on debian-ports, but
          that failed

    IRC, freenode, #hurd, 2014-01-03:

        <congzhang> dhcp 4.3 alpha released
        <congzhang> and PATH_MAX issue was fixed

    IRC, freenode, #hurd, 2014-01-21:

        <gnu_srs> teythoon: what about this?  *** stack smashing detected ***:
          dhclient terminated
        <teythoon> gnu_srs: well, dhclient dies
        <teythoon> i've seen this, it comes and goes
        <teythoon> not sure what happens, but i tend to blame it on our
          custom-built dhcp package
        <teythoon> from debian-ports, and it's outdated
        <teythoon> it's most likely not your fault
        <gnu_srs> i thought there was a new upstream by now
        <teythoon> and the network configuration can be done with passive
          translators as it was always done
        <teythoon> there was ?
        <gnu_srs> there is one recently released, haven't checked yet
        <gnu_srs> in experimental: 4.3.0a1-2, does still not build out of the
          box
        <teythoon> there was, but it does not seem to build on the hurd
        <teythoon>
          https://buildd.debian.org/status/logs.php?pkg=isc-dhcp&arch=hurd-i386
        <teythoon> the most recent version is from debian-ports


    IRC, freenode, #hurd, 2014-01-24:

        <braunr> stack smashing detected ***: dhclient terminated
        <braunr> how nice
        <tschwinge> braunr: dhclient:
          http://news.gmane.org/find-root.php?message_id=%3C874ngfvwn4.fsf%40kepler.schwinge.homeip.net%3E
        <tschwinge> braunr: And I thought, teythoon had found this to be a
          buffer overflow; something like char dev[10], and for us the path to
          the dev (/dev/eth0) was longer (but I may be misremebering).
        <braunr> tschwinge: sounds reasonable
        <tschwinge> braunr: By the way: I'm seeing this segfault all the time
          during boot, but when I again run it manually (root login), it works
          fine.
        <braunr> tschwinge: you mean the dhclient one µ?
        <tschwinge> Yes.
        <braunr> mhm
        <teythoon> braunr, tschwinge: i never found the cause of the dhclient
          issue
        <teythoon> i blame the (outdated) build on debian-ports


    IRC, freenode, #hurd, 2014-01-30:

        <youpi> err, still nobody found the dhclient bug?
        <gnu_srs> youpi: You found the dh-client bug, right?
        <youpi> gnu_srs: yes, the dhclient bug was in libc, as tschwinge
          guessed
        <youpi> I'll probably upload a fixed glibc on debian-ports

        <gnu_srs> youpi: dhclient starts OK with libc 2.17-98~0

        <youpi> btw, the experimental version of isc-dhcp has a newer
          occurrence of PATH_MAX
        <gnu_srs> :-(
        <youpi> (aside from not including the needed debian files for
          hurd-i386)

  * IPv6

    IRC, freenode, #hurd, 2014-02-23:

        <gg0> seems dhclient can't also set ipv6 translator
        <gg0> cheated by setting it manually, i had probably screwed it up
          somehow
        <gg0> exim was complaining 2014-02-23 22:26:41 IPv6 socket creation
          failed: Address family not supported by protocol
