This page reports known Hurd-specific bugs, quirks and corresponding solutions and workarounds with Debian GNU/Hurd package installation and working.

## <a name="Dpkg_wants_external_programs_"> Dpkg wants external programs? </a>

It may be that dpkg wants external GNU/Linux-specific programs that it can't found or that just don't exist on the Hurd. You can trick dpkg by copying and running this script as root:

    #!/bin/bash
    ln -s /sbin/ldconfig /bin/ldconfig
    ln -s /bin/true /bin/update-rc.d
    ln -s /bin/true /bin/start-stop-daemon
    ln -s /bin/true /bin/install-info
    ln -s /bin/true /bin/update-alternatives

## <a name="SSH_not_working"> </a> SSH not working

You must set up the [[translator/random]] device first.

## <a name="An_X_package_hangs_at_startup_wi"> An X package hangs at startup without error messages </a>

Observed with GTK programs like xchat, synaptic, inkscape. It is an issue with libpthread that (as of 04 Feb 2007) is still unresolved. Sorry.

## <a name="Borked_fonts_on_GTK_app"> </a> Borked fonts on GTK app

This is related to issues in Pango.

* Install pango-dev package
* Run as root:

    pango-querymodules > /etc/pango/pango.modules

## <a name="Installing_a_package_seems_to_ha"> Installing a package seems to hang forever </a>

There are various reasons for this.

* If interrupting the process with ctrl-c gives a line like that:

    File "/usr/lib/python2.4/os.py", line 723, in urandom
       bytes += read(_urandomfd, n - len(bytes))
    KeyboardInterrupt

it is the random device fault. Follow the [[translator/random]] guide. If you already did, try _anyway_ to detach and reattach the translators.

## <a name="Cannot_compile_even_trivial_C_pr"> Cannot compile even trivial C programs </a>

Check to have installed the following:

    apt-get install build-essential
    apt-get install libc-dev
