[[!meta copyright="Copyright © 2002, 2003, 2005, 2011 Free Software Foundation,
Inc."]]

[[!meta license="""[[!toggle id="license" text="GFDL 1.2+"]][[!toggleable
id="license" text="Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this
document under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.2 or
any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no Invariant
Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.  A copy of the license
is included in the section entitled [[GNU Free Documentation
License|/fdl]]."]]"""]]

[[!tag open_issue_hurd]]

[[Debian GNU/Hurd|running/debian]] has some script hackery to get
[[running/debian/DHCP]] going.

---

According to the following thread, no port should be needed since all the patches that have been applied, including the one concerning the thread. In fact, the thread finishes without concluding whether the patch has been applied or not. You can grab it in the thread, anyway.

[Link to thread](http://lists.gnu.org/archive/html/bug-hurd/2005-01/msg00025.html)

The thread starts at Jan 4th 2005 until Jan 6th and is only retaken at April 14th in [this thread](http://lists.gnu.org/archive/html/bug-hurd/2005-01/msg00025.html).

[This](http://mail.gnu.org/archive/html/help-hurd/2003-10/msg00016.html) thread on help-hurd has a little more info on what's still needed for DHCP.

Found this [message](http://mail.gnu.org/archive/html/bug-hurd/2003-08/msg00045.html) about DHCP capabilities in the Hurd encouraging.

* Tom Hart began a [discussion ](http://mail.gnu.org/pipermail/help-hurd/2002-October/006643.html) of 14 posts in Oct 2002.

The beginnings of a DHCP translator is available in the Hurd sources on Savannah: [hurd/trans/pump.c](http://savannah.gnu.org/cgi-bin/viewcvs/hurd/hurd/trans/pump.c?rev=1.3&content-type=text/vnd.viewcvs-markup)

Unfortunately our current TCP/IP stack, the pfinet translator, lacks support for the AF\_PACKET interface as well as sending packets with an IP address of 0.0.0.0.

Grant Bowman on bug-hurd:

    Herbert Xu (Pump maintainer) told me that to operate correctly, pump
    uses the AF_PACKET interface which is only present in 2.2.

    Anyone else know the status of getting these compiled and functional?

Neal Walfield on bug-hurd replies:

    > Anyone else know the status of getting these compiled and functional?

    We need to be able to send to the DHCP server with ip address 0.0.0.0.
