[[!meta copyright="Copyright © 2012, 2013, 2016 Free Software Foundation,
Inc."]]

[[!meta license="""[[!toggle id="license" text="GFDL 1.2+"]][[!toggleable
id="license" text="Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this
document under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.2 or
any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no Invariant
Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.  A copy of the license
is included in the section entitled [[GNU Free Documentation
License|/fdl]]."]]"""]]

[[!meta title="Position-Independent Executables"]]

[[!tag open_issue_glibc]]


# IRC, freenode, #hurd, 2012-11-08

    <pinotree> tschwinge: i'm not totally sure, but it seems the pie options
      for gcc/ld are causing issues
    <pinotree> namely, producing executables that sigsegv straight away
    <tschwinge> pinotree: OK, I do remember some issues about these, too.
    <tschwinge> Also for -pg.
    <tschwinge> These have in common that they use different crt*.o files for
      linking.
    <tschwinge> Might well be there's some bugs there.
    <pinotree> one way is to try the w3m debian build: the current build
      configuration enables also pie, which in turns makes an helper executable
      (mktable) sigsegv when invoked
    <pinotree> if «,-pie» is appended to the DEB_BUILD_MAINT_OPTIONS variable
      in debian/rules, pie is not added and the resulting mktable runs
      correctly


## IRC, OFTC, #debian-hurd, 2012-11-09

    <pinotree> youpi: ah, as i noted to tschwinge earlier, it seems -fPIE -pie
      miscompile stuff
    <youpi> uh
    <pinotree> this causes the w3m build failure and (indirectly, due to elinks
      built with -pie) aptitude


## IRC, freenode, #hurd, 2013-01-19

    <gnu_srs> pinotree: I can confirm that -fPIE -pie fails and only -fPIE
      works for mktable in w3m. Still have to check with elinks. What's up doc?


## [[!message-id "20130211040854.GN5926@type.youpi.perso.aquilenet.fr"]]

[[glibc]] `t/pie-sbrk` branch.


## 2016-04

Profiling has been fixed (GCC specs; commit
9b2eb5d3268cf674f9a6964479f20428e0b43500); PIE unknown.
See also `PIE_SPEC` comments in [[gcc]].
