[[!meta copyright="Copyright © 2011 Free Software Foundation, Inc."]]

[[!meta license="""[[!toggle id="license" text="GFDL 1.2+"]][[!toggleable
id="license" text="Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this
document under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.2 or
any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no Invariant
Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.  A copy of the license
is included in the section entitled [[GNU Free Documentation
License|/fdl]]."]]"""]]

[[!meta title="GNU Hackers Meeting, 2013, Paris"]]

<http://www.gnu.org/ghm/2013/paris/>

  * {{$thibault_hurd}}

  Recent developments in the Hurd


  This talk will go through the nice developments in the GNU Hurd that have been
  done over the past few years.  This will include work on the text console, on
  network virtualization, on automatic translator startup, and on general
  support improvements on languages,
  bugfixes, etc. I will notably explain how we now run Linux network drivers in
  a userland process, how a user can run his own TCP/IP stack and make only some
  applications use it.


  
  - Console keyboard configuration through libxkb
  - Console double-width support: chinese in text mode!

  - netdde: linux 2.6.32 drivers in a userland process
  - -> /dev/eth0
  - remap translator
  - user-started pfinet
  - eth-filter

  - list of nice translators
    - nsmux, unionmount
    - netio/socketio
    - tarfs, cvsfs, xmlfs, mboxfs
    - httpfs, ftpfs, gopherfs
    - run
    - libfuse

  - real-life ext2fs/e2fsck debugging (see 2012-q1-q2)

  - GCJ, GNAT, go ongoing
  - fixed a lot of testsuite failures in perl & python, mostly around the 99% figure nowadays
  - about stability: buildd daemons usually manage 5-10 days of compiling packages, essentially until hitting a package that uses a lot of memory and makes the box go OOM. I don't even remember when I last reinstalled a buildd. half a dozen years ago probably.
  - translators now using pthreads

  - Xen port: had to modify GNU Mach only
  - small AHCI driver, which btw supports disks above 128GiB, up to 2TiB
  - towards 64bitness. Mach boots, 32/64 RPC translation pending

  - we've had a nice 0.401 release on April 2011
  - Debian native installation
  Last but not least, the Debian GNU/Hurd porter team has released a snapshot of
  Debian GNU/Hurd at the same time as the Wheezy release, with a bit more than
  75% of the Debian packages!

  - contribute! There's a "small hacks" list on the contributing page.
  
  + the vision (why it matters), future directions, and important milestones coming up.


[[!ymlfront data="""

thibault_hurd:

  "presentation by Samuel Thibault: [*Recent developments in the Hurd*](http://www.gnu.org/ghm/2013/paris/)"

"""]]
