[[!meta copyright="Copyright Â© 2008 Free Software Foundation, Inc."]]

[[!meta license="""[[!toggle id="license" text="GFDL 1.2+"]][[!toggleable
id="license" text="Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this
document under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.2 or
any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no Invariant
Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.  A copy of the license
is included in the section entitled
[[GNU Free Documentation License|/fdl]]."]]"""]]

* **madrazr** said that web commits for the wiki stall forever (more than half an hour); the reason is unknown. **antrik** said that it is not much of a problem if the problems with git access are solved.

* It was explained that the wiki server is not a very fast machine, which runs Hurd, hence the delay.

* Everybody agreed on the fact that there is much school/university work to do, since it's the end of the term now; students have little time to work on their projects.

* The idea to use git and github for the projects was suggested.

* **antrik** remarked that the summer session starts pretty soon and that it is time to tackle open design questions and decide where to start actual coding. The task to do that was assigned as a homework till the next meeting.

* the official GSoC students talked about the start of program gift by Google.
