[[!meta copyright="Copyright © 2013 Free Software Foundation, Inc."]]

[[!meta license="""[[!toggle id="license" text="GFDL 1.2+"]][[!toggleable
id="license" text="Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this
document under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.2 or
any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no Invariant
Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.  A copy of the license
is included in the section entitled [[GNU Free Documentation
License|/fdl]]."]]"""]]

<!-- Date when the news item is (to be) pulished (important for RSS feeds).
Will be set by tschwinge when publishing.
[[!meta date="YYYY-MM-DD HH:MM UTC"]]
-->

Debian GNU/Hurd 2013 *released*!

[[!if test="included()" then="""[[!toggle id=full_news
text="Details."]][[!toggleable id=full_news text="[[!paste id=full_news]]"]]"""
else="
[[!paste id=full_news]]"]]

[[!cut id="full_news" text="""

It is with huge pleasure that the Hurd project announces the release of Debian
GNU/Hurd 2013.  This is a snapshot of Debian sid at the time of the Debian
Wheezy release (May 2013), so it is mostly based on Wheezy.  It is *not* an
official Debian release, but it is an official Debian GNU/Hurd port release.

The installation ISO images can be downloaded from
[[Debian Ports|http://ftp.debian-ports.org/debian-cd/hurd-i386/current/]]
with the usual 3 Debian flavors: NETINST, CD, or DVD. A pre-installed disk image
is also available to make trying Debian GNU/Hurd even easier.

Yes, really. This time it is not a joke like the
[[0.401 release|news/2011-04-01.html]] . Due to the very small amount of
developers, the progress of the project has not been as fast as other successful
Operating Systems, but we believe to have reached a very good state.

Please make sure to read the
[[configuration information|http://www.debian.org/ports/hurd/hurd-install]],
the [[FAQ|faq]],
and the [[translator primer|hurd/documentation/translator_primer]]
for a start.

---

The **GNU Hurd** is the GNU project's replacement for the Unix kernel.  It is a
collection of servers that run on the Mach microkernel to implement file
systems, network protocols, file access control, and other features that are
implemented by the Unix kernel or similar kernels (such as Linux).  [[More
detailed|hurd/documentation]].

**GNU Mach** is the microkernel upon which a GNU Hurd system is based.  It
provides an Inter Process Communication (IPC) mechanism that the Hurd uses to
define interfaces for implementing in a distributed multi-server fashion the
services a traditional operating system kernel provides.  [[More
detailed|microkernel/mach/gnumach]].

<!--see [[contributing/web_pages/news/writing_the_qoth]] for additional information on writing the QotH.-->

"""]]
