If you are not familiar with the %WIKITOOLNAME% collaboration tool, please visit %TWIKIWEB%.WelcomeGuest in the %WIKITOOLNAME%.%TWIKIWEB% web first.

**Note:** The %WIKITOOLNAME%.Know web is for demonstration purposes only. It hardly contains any data, its purpose is to show how %WIKITOOLNAME% can be used as a knowledge base for support (e.g. as a web based help desk application).

The %WIKITOOLNAME%.Know knowledge base has the following functions:

1. **Submit Data to the Knowledge Base:** Enter data that could be usefull for other support staff.
2. **Search the Knowledge Base:** Search for a solution of a problem a customer has.
3. **Email Notification:** Subscribe in [[WebNotify]] to get notified by email whenever the knowledge base gets updated.

**Submit Data to the Knowledge Base**

Please feel free to add any information you think can help the support staff solving problems. To contribute to the knowledge base, please create a new topic that contains a problem and solution (or workaround) pair.

To submit data to the Knowledge Base:

* Think of a good topic name. It is recommended to use a name that describes the problem, e.g. an error message. The topic name should comply to the %TWIKIWEB%.WikiNotation. An sample topic name for the error message _Incorrect DLL version W32PTH10.DLL_ would be [[IncorrectDllVersionW32PTH10DLL]].
* The easiest way to create a new topic is to type in a new topic name into the edit field at the top of each page, press Enter and then click on the **Create** link at the bottom of the page.
* Edit the new topic or copy &amp; paste the text you already have.
* Select the appropriate items in the %WIKITOOLNAME%.Know Category section. See [[TWikiCategory]] for details. This allows detailed search in [[WebSearch]] later on.
* [Preview Changes] and [Save Changes] when you are done.

**Search the Knowledge Base**

Please use the [[WebSearch]] topic to search for a solution to a problem.

**Email Notification**

Subscribe in [[WebNotify]] to get notified by email when the knowledge base gets updated. Support staff should subscribe to be notified, this is a good way to hone trouble shooting skills by having a look at newly submitted problem / solution pairs.

#### [[TWikiCategory]]

<table border="2" cellpadding="1" cellspacing="1">
  <tr>
    <td align="right" valign="top"><span style="background:"><font color="">Topic Classification</font></span><a href="http://LOCATION/TopicClassification">?</a>: <br />
    </td>
    <td><span style="background:"><font color="">No Disclosure</font></span><a href="http://LOCATION/NoDisclosure">?</a></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td align="right" valign="top"><span style="background:"><font color="">Operating System</font></span><a href="http://LOCATION/OperatingSystem">?</a>: <br />
    </td>
    <td>   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td align="right" valign="top"><span style="background:"><font color="">Os Version</font></span><a href="http://LOCATION/OsVersion">?</a>: <br />
    </td>
    <td>  </td>
  </tr>
</table>
