Welcome to the home of **%WIKITOOLNAME%.%WEB%**. This is a web-based collaboration area used as a knowledge base to find useful information for ... (anything you'd like, this Web is for demonstration purposes only)

**Starting points:**

<form action="%SCRIPTURLPATH%/search%SCRIPTSUFFIX%/%WEB%/">
  <ul>
    <li><span style="background:"><font color="">Readme First</font></span><a href="http://LOCATION/ReadmeFirst">?</a> tells you how to use and contribute to the knowlege base. </li>
    <li> To <strong>submit a new problem - solution pair</strong> create a new topic like this: Type a new topic name into the edit field at the top of this page, press Enter, and then follow the [Create] link. </li>
    <li><span style="background:"><font color="">Web Search</font></span><a href="http://LOCATION/WebSearch">?</a> can be used to <strong>search for a solution to a problem.</strong></li>
    <li><input name="search" size="32" type="text" /> <input type="submit" value="Search" />    (More options in <span style="background:"><font color="">Web Search</font></span><a href="http://LOCATION/WebSearch">?</a>) </li>
    <li><span style="background:"><font color="">Web Changes</font></span><a href="http://LOCATION/WebChanges">?</a>: Find out recent changes of the %WIKITOOLNAME%.%WEB% web. </li>
    <li><span style="background:"><font color="">Web Index</font></span><a href="http://LOCATION/WebIndex">?</a>: Display all %WIKITOOLNAME%.%WEB% topics in alphabetical order. </li>
    <li> %NOTIFYTOPIC%: Subscribe to be automatically notified when something changes in the %WIKITOOLNAME%.%WEB% web. </li>
    <li> %STATISTICSTOPIC%: View access statistics of the %WIKITOOLNAME%.%WEB% web. </li>
    <li> %WEBPREFSTOPIC%: Preferences of the %WIKITOOLNAME%.%WEB% web. </li>
  </ul>
</form>

**Notes:**

* You are currently in the %WIKITOOLNAME%.%WEB% web. The color code for this web is a light green background, so you know where you are.
* If you are not familiar with the %WIKITOOLNAME% collaboration tool, please visit %TWIKIWEB%.WelcomeGuest in the %WIKITOOLNAME%.%TWIKIWEB% web first.

%INCLUDE\{"%TWIKIWEB%.TWikiWebsTable"\}%
