[[!meta copyright="Copyright © 2011, 2013 Free Software Foundation, Inc."]]

[[!meta license="""[[!toggle id="license" text="GFDL 1.2+"]][[!toggleable
id="license" text="Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this
document under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.2 or
any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no Invariant
Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.  A copy of the license
is included in the section entitled [[GNU Free Documentation
License|/fdl]]."]]"""]]

[[!tag open_issue_documentation]]


# One-stop Development Environment

Invent something.


# Mailing Lists

Add link to [[mailing_lists]] to page, and suggest following these.


# IRC, freenode, #hurd, 2013-08-05

    <nalaginrut> hi guys, I'm new here. I'm a developer from Guile community,
      and I think maybe it's a proper time to do some work to make GNU stuff
      use Guile increasingly, but I found the wiki and docs seems a bit old,
      and I can't find an entry from Hurd source, since there're too many
      things. Anyone point me out? 
    <nalaginrut> thanks
    <nlightnfotis> nalaginrut what exactly is it that you need help with?
    <nalaginrut> I've no idea, I saw MIG and I think if it's a language I can
      write a front-end on Guile platform. But someone suggest me write hurd
      binding will be a good start
    <nalaginrut> I cloned incubator which is cl-binding for hurd, but I've no
      idea too, since there's nothing in master branch
    <pinotree> well, fixing guile on the hurd would be a start:
      https://buildd.debian.org/status/package.php?p=guile-2.0
    <braunr> i won't talk about this, as my personal opinion on the matter is
      that it's not a proper time to do it
    <braunr> but at the same time, people should do what they're interested in
    <braunr> so feel free to do it
    <nalaginrut> braunr:  is there any reason why it's not a proper time?
    <braunr> nalaginrut: two words: mig sucks
    <nalaginrut> so it'll be replaced by a new stuff? 
    <teythoon> any more reasons to have alternatives, no?
    <braunr> sure, please do it :)
    <braunr> actually it's more than just mig
    <braunr> the low level internals of the hurd are almost fine, but not good
      enough to reliably develop over it
    <braunr> gccgo is currently proving it
    <braunr> and such projects are good opportunities to identify and fix such
      issues
    <braunr> but the, if you want to work on guile, be prepared to work on a
      lot more than just guile
    <nalaginrut> I'm afraid I have to collect the reasons and evaluate when is
      proper to do that, if Hurd has to be redesigned, it is not a proper time
      ;-)
    <braunr> it also happened with openjdk, jeremie had to fix signals (!)
    <nalaginrut> anyway, I just want a suggestion how to start
    <pinotree> <pinotree> well, fixing guile on the hurd would be a start:
      https://buildd.debian.org/status/package.php?p=guile-2.0
    <nalaginrut> ok, I'll try
    <antrik> nalaginrut: "incubator" is a somewhat strange beast. every branch
      in there is a completely different project. you have to find the right
      branch for the CL bindings...
    <nalaginrut> antrik:  thanks for reply, I guess it's clisp branch?
    <pinotree> nalaginrut:
      http://www.gnu.org/software/hurd/source_repositories/incubator.html
    <antrik> nalaginrut: sounds like it :-)
    <antrik> braunr: I'm believe it's important to encourage work on as many
      different levels as possible. there is no motivation for fixing low-level
      issues unless there are some interesting high-level things relying on
      these...
    <braunr> antrik: i agree
    <braunr> 11:50 < braunr> but at the same time, people should do what
      they're interested in
    <antrik> in fact, it's pretty much impossible to identify what we really
      need at the lower levels unless working on high-level stuff as well...
    <braunr> yes
    <braunr> 11:57 < braunr> but the, if you want to work on guile, be prepared
      to work on a lot more than just guile
    <nalaginrut> I prepare to work on Hurd, is that an fair answer?
    <antrik> nalaginrut: perfect! ;-)
    <nalaginrut> ;-) well, easy to say, but I'll try what I can do
    <antrik> yeah, just see how far you get. might be an interesting ride :-)
