[[!meta copyright="Copyright © 2006, 2007, 2008 Free Software Foundation, Inc."]]

[[!meta license="""[[!toggle id="license" text="GFDL 1.2+"]][[!toggleable
id="license" text="Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this
document under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.2 or
any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no Invariant
Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.  A copy of the license
is included in the section entitled
[[GNU Free Documentation License|/fdl]]."]]"""]]

People often come to us and state that they'd like to help with the GNU/Hurd.
This is very good and very much encouraged: we're always looking for volunteers
to help with the effort!  However, for things to eventually become productive,
we'd like every new potential contributor to read through the following list of
items and spend some time thinking about those.


* What areas are you interested in contributing to?

    Think a moment about this list: porting and extending existing software to
    run on Hurd systems; work on existing or write new Hurd servers or
    libraries; work on the standard C library; make Hurd stuff usuable from
    other programming languages than C; work on the current Mach microkernel;
    do research and development of a next-generation microkernel; help with
    development of new Hurd libraries and servers on top of that.  Those
    projects are all within the *Hurd* topic, but are vastly different
    projects.

* How much time do you have?

    Do you plan to work on just a small project, or do you have time for
    longer development?

* How is your expertise about system and kernel programming?

    Sadly we don't have the ressources to teach you from ground-up.  We will --
    of course! -- try to give answers to specific questions, but on substantial
    parts of your contribution you'll have to work on your own.  (Unless there
    is someone who is already working in the same area, of course.)

* Have you previously been working on Free Software projects?

    Are you used to the working-style Free Software projects bring with them?
    Did you already contribute to other projects?  What sort of contributions?

* What is your motivation to work on the GNU Hurd?


Every new contributor is very much encouraged to take some notes about these
items and post them to *[[mailing lists/bug-hurd]]*.
