[[!meta copyright="Copyright © 2008, 2009 Free Software Foundation, Inc."]]

[[!meta license="""[[!toggle id="license" text="GFDL 1.2+"]][[!toggleable
id="license" text="Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this
document under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.2 or
any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no Invariant
Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.  A copy of the license
is included in the section entitled
[[GNU Free Documentation License|/fdl]]."]]"""]]


Sergiu Ivanov

Mail: <mailto:unlimitedscolobb@gmail.com>

# Current Activity

I am currently busy finishing the university semester, this is why I
am rather passive.

## Roadmap

* **Build `nsmux` under the Hurd tree** -- **antrik** has been urging
  me to do this for a long time, so I definitely have to give it a
  try.

* **Try Thomas's `nsmux-notify` branch** -- To support his stance
  against including `nsmux` in the Hurd source tree, Thomas added to
  `nsmux` the ability to listen to port notification (as I understand
  it).  I have to try that, too.

* **Make proxy nodes go away when the proxied translator goes away**
  -- This should be done by listening to notifications on the ports to
  the proxied translators.  A similar functionality is already
  implemented in `unionmount`, but it was decided that `nsmux` should
  use standard notification interfaces, as opposed to the custom
  demuxer and handler implemented in `unionmount`.

* **Don't attach anonymous translators** -- There is no special point
  in attaching anonymous (formerly known as dynamic) translators to
  specific nodes.  Keeping them orphan should simplify the design of
  `nsmux` by eliminating the need for shadow nodes, whose main purpose
  was to serve as virtual locations to attach translators to.

* **Setup a list of nodes proxying static translators** -- This list
  is needed when for the filter, which should also be able to go down
  the static translator stack, not only the stack of anonymous
  translators.

* **Cleanup `nsmux`** -- When I was writing `nsmux` my acquaintance
  with good coding and code formatting practices was very basic, which
  resulted in messy and sometimes ugly code.

* **Implement recursive propagation of translators down directories**
  -- This task was planned long ago and is fascinating, but I won't be
  working on it in the near future.

---

# Google Summer of Code: 2009 Project

**Unionmount**: The goal of this project is to make it possible to set
translators in unionmount mode, which means that the filesystem
published by the mounted translator will get merged with the directory
tree of the node the translator is mounted onto.

For documentation, see [[hurd/translator/unionmount]].

At the Final Evaluation, this project was given a passing evaluation
by **antrik**.  This means that the union-mount functionality is
working and has been tested normally to collaborate with
`eth-multiplexer`.

---

## Roadmap

### DONE

(Dates in brackets show the completion date)

* **Make `unionfs` build.** *(24 May)* For reasons unknown to me,
  `unionfs` Makefile was configured to search for include files from
  under `$(prefix)/include`, while `$(prefix)` was never
  defined. Setting `$(prefix)` to `/usr` solved the problem.

* **Change the command line parsing in `unionfs` to comply with the
  requirements of `unionmount`.** *(25 May)* Although the core
  functionality of `unionmount` heavily relies on `unionfs`, the
  command line interface of these two programs is completely
  different: `unionfs` operates on directories, the list of which is
  explicitly specified, while `unionmount` *always* merges the
  underlying filesystem and the filesystem published by the
  mountee. Therefore, options like `--add`, `--remove`, `--underlying`
  (specific to `unionfs`) make little sense in `unionmount`
  context. These options have been removed. Also, `unionmount` must be
  able to pass some switches to the mountee, which means that it
  should stop parsing the command line arguments immediately after
  having encountered the path to the mountee (very similar to how
  `settrans` works). This functionality has also been implemented.

* **Make `unionmount` capable of starting the mountee.** *(28 May)*
  The idea behind implementation of this goal is that `unionmount`
  should provide a proxy node on which to set the mountee. The main
  issue about this goal was the fact that the mountee *cannot* be
  started during the initialization of `unionmount`, because in this
  phase `unionmount` is not capable of responding to RPCs, while many
  translators try to `io_stat` their underlying node or do other
  interesting things on startup. The solution to this problem is,
  obviously, *lazy* startup, i.e. the mountee is started at the first
  attempt to access (via `dir_lookup` or `dir_readdir`) the merged
  filesystem published by `unionmount`.

* **Include the filesystem published by the mountee in the list of
  merged filesystems.** *(1 Jun)* `unionfs` operates on a list of
  ports to the underlying filesystems, therefore, to finish the
  unionmount functionality, I had to include the port to the mountee
  in this list.

* **Learn Texinfo.** *(Jun 4)* In order to produce canonical
  documentation I had to learn the Texinfo documentation format.

* **Write documentation for `unionmount`.** *(Jun 5)* The basic
  unionmount functionality being finished, it has to be documented
  properly, lest it should lag behind and remain unfinished
  eventually.

* **Write documentation for `unionfs`.** *(Jun 5)* `unionfs` is not
  exactly well-documented at the moment, the only help being provided
  by the comments in the sources. The goal is to write a more coherent
  documentation.

* **Start with a clean unionfs and implement the `--mount` argument**
  *(11 Jun)* It was suggested to implement the union mount
  functionality first, instead of doing some partial adaptation of
  `unionfs` to `unionmount` and leaving the complete adaptation for
  the future.

* **Compile GNU/Hurd from source to be able to study
  eth-multiplexer.** *(16 Jun)* On my way to getting a working
  instance of eth-multiplexer I learnt how I could compile GNU/Hurd in
  a Debian GNU/Hurd system.

* **Setup the `devnode`--`eth-multiplexer`--`pfinet chain`.** *(30
  Jun)* Due to the fact that I was trying to build everything using
  `gcc-4.3`, I got strange behaviour of pfinet and spend a week trying
  to figure out the reason.

* **Try to start the mountee during initialization of `unionfs`** *(4
  Jul)* Initially the mountee was started at the first lookup. Now it
  is started immediately after initialization of `unionmount`.

* **Fix the patches in `--mount` option series** *(5 Jul)* The patches
  have been reviewed by **antrik**. I corrected them and posted them
  to the ML for final reviews.

* **Orphan the mountee after starting it** *(7 Jul)* Orphaning the
  mountee after starting it up seems to be a nice work-around for the
  necessity of keeping a proxy node in unionmount in simple
  use-cases. It is possible that this functionality will provided as a
  separate patch (without inclusion in master) should it turn out that
  orphaning the mountee is a bad idea.

* **Decide which RPCs should be forwarded to the mountee and how this
  should happen** *(10 Jul)* This is the primary requirement in being
  able to proxy the control port of `unionmount`.

* **Fix the patches the have already been commented on** *(14 Jul)*
  The new patches I have submitted have been reviewed; also, the older
  patches have been reviewed again, which required correcting them.

* **Add the `--no-mount` option** *(14 Jul)* Using the `--no-mount`
  and `--mount` options, the user can decide whether unionmount should
  be completely transparent (i.e. most control-port RPCs forwarded to
  the mountee) or not.

* **Make `unionmount` go away when the mountee goes away** *(14 Jul)*
  `unionmount` makes sense only while the mountee is running, so it
  has to go away as soon as the mountee has been shut down for some
  reason.

* **Proxy the control port of `unionmount`** *(14 Jul)* For
  `unionmount` to become transparent, most of the RPCs invoked on the
  its control port should be forwarded to the mountee.

* **Fix adding filesystems to `unionmount`** *(16 Jul)* `settrans -a
  foo unionfs -a <dir> -u -t <translator>` worked, but `settrans -a
  foo unionfs -u -t <translator> -a <dir>` didn't.  The problem was
  that in a series of rebase operations I accidentally left the
  "Orphan the mountee" commit out and the problem appeared when the
  `start_mountee` function tried to attach the mountee.  Of course,
  this is not the definite solution, since I don't know why should the
  attempt to attach the mountee work in the former case and fail in
  the latter, but I will leave the investigation for some future time.

* **Create the patch for supplying the mountee with a port to the
  underlying node of unionfs** *(17 Jul)* Such functionality makes
  `unionmount` even more transparent.

* **Try to make `eth-multiplexer` work with static instances of
  `devnode`** *(3 Aug)* A static `devnode` translator is a `devnode`
  translator which is told to use the eth-multiplexer's pseudo master
  device port via the "-M" option.  Technically it looks like
  `settrans -a <node> devnode -M <dir> <device-name>`, where `<dir>`
  is the node on which eth-multiplexer is running.

  The problem was in the fact that the root node of `eth-multiplexer`
  was not treated completely similarly as other nodes; specifically no
  device port was created for it.  Minor modifications to some
  conditions solved the problem.

* **Add the `MASTER` node to `eth-multiplexer`** *(5 Aug)* The
  `MASTER` node, published by eth-multiplexer, allows creating any
  number of virtual devices.  This node is mainly accessed by static
  instances of `devnode` to setup their corresponding virtual devices.

* **Add support for priorities** *(6 Aug)* Now the mountee's
  filesystem can be configured to "lie" beneath other filesystems.

* **Use `unionmount` to merge the virtual filesystem of
  `eth-multiplexer` with its underlying filesystem** *(7 Aug)*
  `eth-multiplexer` can is unionmounted to "lie beneath" it's
  underlying filesystem.  If, for example, the multiplexer is
  unionmounted on `veth/`, the user can both set (static) `devnode`
  translator on the nodes shown in `veth/` and belonging to the
  underlying filesystem and create normal virtual multiplexer devices
  by accessing any node (not present in the underlying filesystem) and
  opening a device using the port to the node as a pseudo device port.

* **Rename the `MASTER` node into `.MASTER`** (7 Aug) This name seems
  more natural for a special-purpose node.

* **Set the stat information for `eth-multiplexer` nodes in
  `netfs_validate_stat`** (9 Aug) In the initial version the stat
  information was set up properly only at device creation.  Before
  that the stat information was copied from the underlying node, which
  baffled `unionmount`.  Now the stat information is setup in
  `netfs_validate_stat`.

* **Supply the mountee with the real root.** *(14 Aug)* Since the
  mountee is *not attached* to its underlying node, it is okay to
  supply it with the real root node of `unionfs`.  The mountee's
  filesystem will not obscure the `unionfs`'s one because the mountee
  is *not attached* to the root node.

---

# Google Summer of Code: 2008 Project: Namespace-based translator selection

---

## Current Task

Write the filesystem proxy for namespace-based translator selection (*nsmux*).

The code is at <http://github.com/scolobb/nsmux/tree/master>.

---

###Did this week

* Modified the node cache so that it maintains shadow nodes alive.

###Plans for the next week

* Implement the shutting down of translator stacks when *nsmux* is asked to go away (in case **antrik** considers that necessary).

* Make *nsmux* provide the access to the translator stack of the real node, in case a translator (mainly, a filter) should ask for its underlying node to be opened in O_NOTRANS mode.

---

###Current Status

####DONE:

* The skeleton which mirrors the filesystem.

* Provide proxy nodes (modify the standard version of netfs_S_dir_lookup).

####TODO:

* Create the generic filtering translator.

* Create the translator '0' (providing the untranslated version of the
  node).

* Create the "recursive wrappers" for one-node translators.

* Create special translators for the main proxy so that its functionality
  should be complete.

* Implement sharing of dynamic translator stacks where possible.

* Make dynamic translators go away as soon as they are not required.

* Refine the skeleton in several places so that it should become faster
  and more reliable.

* Kill bugs.

* Integrate nsmux upstream.

* Solve the libtrivfs stacking issue.

* Patch libnetfs (it does not support file_get_translator_cntl, for
  instance).

---

###Progress

####8: Fri Sep 19:

> Modified the ncache so that it now maintains shadow nodes (and directory nodes too, it is a side effect at the moment) alive.

####7: Sat Aug 30 - Fri Sep 5:

> Added the code for shutting down dynamic translator stacks.

####6: Mon Aug 4 - Fri Aug 29:

> Implemented the proxy nodes.

####5: Thu Jul 24 - Thu Jul 24:

> Created a *libnetfs*-based one-node translator, working exactly like the *libtrivfs*-based translator I had written before; the former, however, can be included in a translator stack.

####4: Tue Jul 22 - Thu Jul 24:

> Attempted to make a *libtrivfs*-based translator to be able to be stacked upon itself (to be able to receive a translator on top of itself, more exactly); attempted to   borrow some code from *libnetfs* but this didn't bring any results.

####3: Sun Jul 20 - Tue Jul 22:

> Implemented the possibility to propagate a translator on all files belonging to a directory 'dir' in the request of the type 'dir,,x/'.

####2: Thu Jul 17 - Fri Jul 18:

> Extended the lookup code in *nsmux* to allow for looking up nodes like 'file,,x' and added the possibility to escape the double-comma in the following way: ',,,'.

####1: Mon Jul 12 - Tue Jul 13:

> Implemented a simple *libtrivfs*-based translator to test the lookup code for *nsmux*.

####0: Sat Jul 12 - Sat Jul 12:

> Made small changes to the code of *filterfs* to fit the needs of *nsmux*.

---

## Completed Tasks

####2: Sat May 3 - Fri Jul 17:

> Write a translator that should filter the contents of the directory it is set on according to some property. The property can be an arbitrary command.

> The code is at <http://github.com/scolobb/filterfs/tree/master>.

####1: Mon Apr 28 - Wed Apr 30:

> Wrote a Python extension module in C for retreiving the uptime. The module is based on the code of *w*.

####0: Sun Apr 27:

> Followed the code of *dmesgd* (<http://www.bddebian.com/junk/dmesgd/>) kindly offered by **bddebian** and rewrote it from scratch as a tutorial.
