## <a name="Table_of_Contents"> Table of Contents </a>

%TOC%

## <a name="Introduction"> Introduction </a>

This is the GNU area for the Hurd Wiki. Here you can find everything not directly related to the Hurd wiki but still GNU.

If you want to help the GNU movement, or if you simply don't know what this GNU business is, visit <http://www.gnu.org>.

For information on the licenses used on GNU software, and on other free software licenses, please see our [[CopyleftLicenses]] page.

## <a name="Contents"> Contents </a>

The GNU area currently contains

* [[CopyleftLicenses]]
* [[FreeDocumentationLicense]]

----

## <a name="Comments"> Comments </a>

Where did you get that logo? Maybe it's the color but it looks very elegant compared to <http://www.gnu.org>

-- [[Main/GrantBow]] - 23 Oct 2002

I did it myself. Somewhat inspired by another GNU artwork, but completely hand made in the Gimp.

I'm working on a cool Mach logo as well. Inspiration is the old Atari arcade game M.A.C.H. 3. :-)

-- [[Main/JoachimNilsson]] - 29 Oct 2002

What do you feel about the new copyright notice at the bottom of this web?

I'm afraid that I will have to add another page to the edit process to actually enforce this stuff. Perhaps I can combine the old Preview with this copyright assignment, what do you think?

Oh, btw. It seems RMS is right. At least according to Swedish law (as far as I've checked) transfer/assignment of copyright can be made the way he describes. The user has to select a checkbox or press a button to accept the copyright assignment each time. But as long as that is done we don't have to have any other form of "legal contract" between the users and the FSF.

-- [[Main/JoachimNilsson]] - 29 Oct 2002
